Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost of Capital and Earnings Transparency

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 2015

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 48

58 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2009 Last revised: 14 May 2013

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Yaniv Konchitchki

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: January 2013

Abstract

We provide evidence that firms with more transparent earnings enjoy a lower cost of capital. We base our earnings transparency measure on the extent to which earnings and change in earnings covary contemporaneously with returns. We find a significant negative relation between our transparency measure and subsequent excess and portfolio mean returns, and expected cost of capital, even after controlling for previously documented determinants of cost of capital.

Keywords: accounting procedures, asset pricing, cost of capital, financial statements, risk

JEL Classification: M43, M41

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E. and Konchitchki, Yaniv and Landsman, Wayne R., Cost of Capital and Earnings Transparency (January 2013). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 2015, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1348245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1348245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A Ang , J Liu
How to Discount Cash flows with Time-Varying Expected Returns
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 2745 - 2783 Posted: 2004
Crossref
W Bailey , G A Karolyi , C Salva
The Economic Consequences of Increased Disclosure: Evidence from International Cross-Listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Relative Valuation Roles of Equity Book Value and Net Income as a Function of Financial Health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , William H. Beaver , John R. M. Hand , Wayne R. Landsman
Accruals, Cash Flow and Equity Values
Pages: 44 Posted: 8 Mar 1999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,081
ABSTRACT VIEWS
26,687
RANK
4,115
50 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies