Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reported Earnings and Analyst Forecasts as Competing Sources of Information: A New Approach

50 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2009

Heather M. Anderson

Monash University - Department of Econometrics and Business Statistics; Department of Econometrics and Business Statistics

H. Chan

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance; Monash University - Department of Accounting

Robert W. Faff

Corvinus University Budapest; University of Queensland; Bond University

Yew Kee Ho

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 4, 2009

Abstract

Givoly (1985) provides formal evidence on the relation between the past history of earnings and their own forecast. Our study uses a new methodology, modified Granger causality tests, to further analyze the information flows between earnings and forecasts. Our application of this widely acclaimed time series approach complements existing cross-sectional studies by abstracting from stock market reactions to information, and focusing on the dynamic interaction between reported earnings and analysts' forecasts. Based on long time series of analyst earnings forecasts and reported earnings, we provide formal and compelling evidence of bi-directional causality. Further, we report that the lag structure in information flows is longer than has been documented in the previous literature. This is consistent with our expectation that, in addition to past earnings reports, the forecasts themselves make a significant contribution to the information that is reflected in future earnings. However, the presence of feedback also suggests that past earnings reports as well as past forecasts are incorporated into later forecasts. Collectively, our findings imply that the information in earnings reports has inherent positive value and that forecasts do not fully substitute for earnings releases.

Keywords: Analyst's forecasts, Reported earnings, Granger causality, Information flows

JEL Classification: M41, G29, C32

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Heather and Chan, Howard and Faff, Robert W. and Ho, Yew-Kee, Reported Earnings and Analyst Forecasts as Competing Sources of Information: A New Approach (March 4, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1353129 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1353129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Q Cheng
The role of analysts' forecasts in accounting-based valuation: a critical approach
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , p. 5 - 31 Posted: 2005
Crossref
G Clinch , N Sinclair
Intra-industry information releases
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 9 , p. 89 - 106 Posted: 1987
Crossref
D Collins , S Kothari
An analysis of intertemporal and cross-sectional determinants of earnings response coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , p. 143 - 181 Posted: 1989
Crossref
D Collins , E Maydew , E Weiss
Changes in the value-relevance of earnings and book values over the past forty years
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,376
RANK
310,156
2 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies