Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Hedging and Shareholder Value

Journal of Financial Research, Vol. 33, No. 4, pp. 317-371, Winter 2010

WBS Finance Group Research Paper No. 116

60 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2009 Last revised: 24 Mar 2011

Kevin Aretz

Alliance Manchester Business School

Söhnke M. Bartram

University of Warwick; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: March 5, 2009

Abstract

According to financial theory, corporate hedging can increase shareholder value in the presence of capital market imperfections such as direct and indirect costs of financial distress, costly external financing, and taxes. This paper presents a comprehensive review of the extensive existing empirical literature that has tested these theories, documenting overall mixed empirical support for rationales of hedging with derivatives at the firm level. While various empirical challenges and limitations advise some caution with regard to the interpretation of the existing evidence, the results are, however, consistent with derivatives use being just one part of a broader financial strategy that considers the type and level of financial risks, the availability of risk-management tools, and the operating environment of the firm. In particular, recent evidence suggests that derivatives use is related to debt levels and maturity, dividend policy, holdings of liquid assets, and the degree of operating hedging. Moreover, corporations do not just use financial derivatives, but rely heavily on pass-through, operational hedging, and foreign currency debt to manage financial risk.

Keywords: Corporate finance, risk management, exposure, foreign exchange rates, derivatives

JEL Classification: G12, G31, F40, F30

Suggested Citation:

Aretz, Kevin and Bartram, Söhnke M., Corporate Hedging and Shareholder Value (March 5, 2009). Journal of Financial Research, Vol. 33, No. 4, pp. 317-371, Winter 2010, WBS Finance Group Research Paper No. 116, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1354149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
T Adam , C S Fernando
Hedging, Speculation and Shareholder Value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 283 - 309 Posted: 2006
Crossref
G Allayannis , A Mozumdar
The Impact of Negative Cash Flow and Influential Observations on Investment-Cash Flow Sensitivity Estimates
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 28 , p. 901 - 930 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G Allayannis , E Ofek
Exchange Rate Exposure, Hedging, and the Use of Foreign Currency Derivatives
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 20 , p. 273 - 296 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G Allayannis , J P Weston
The Use of Foreign Currency Derivatives and Firm Market Value
Review of Financial Studies , volume 14 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,277
RANK
16,106
16 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Risk Management: Coordinating Corporate Investment and Financing Policies

By Kenneth Froot, David S. Scharfstein, ...

Why Firms Use Currency Derivatives

By Christopher Geczy, Bernadette A. Minton, ...

The Use of Foreign Currency Derivatives and Firm Market Value

By George (yiorgos) Allayannis and James Weston

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies