Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Practices in the British Food and Drinks Industry

British Food Journal, Vol. 108, No.5, pp. 336-357, 2006

21 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2009

Magdy G. Abdel-Kader

Anglia Ruskin University

Robert G. Luther

University of the West of England (UWE) - Bristol Business School

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

Purpose - This paper investigates and reports on the management accounting practices in the British food and drinks industry.

Design/methodology/approach - The data is generated by a large-scale postal questionnaire which was informed by preliminary interviews. Further interviews were carried out to aid interpretation of the responses. Descriptive statistics on the importance and frequency of use of individual practices provide the basis for discussion.

Findings - Direct costing is widely practiced and important, by contrast with activity-based costing and full absorption costing. Despite the limitations of conventional budgets, they remain a central management accounting 'pillar' and are frequently used in 'what if?' analyzes. The balanced scorecard and other non-financial performance measures are perceived to be important but never or rarely used by 40% of companies. Product profitability analyzes are frequently applied, and, surprisingly, the profitability of supplying individual customers is frequently calculated by over 50% of the population. Respondents were skeptical about sophisticated DCF investment appraisals.

Practical implications - Traditional management accounting is 'alive and well' but there are indications of likely increased use of: information concerning the cost of quality; non-financial measures relating to employees and analyzes of competitors' strengths and weaknesses. There is evidence of a gap between current textbooks and actual practices.

Originality/value - The survey provides a unique detailed examination of actual management accounting practices and an indication of future trends.

Keywords: Management accounting practices, Food industry, Survey

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Abdel-Kader, Magdy G. and Luther, Robert G., Management Accounting Practices in the British Food and Drinks Industry (2006). British Food Journal, Vol. 108, No.5, pp. 336-357, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1358339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
A Abdel-Maksoud , D Dugdale , R Luther
Non-financial performance measurement in manufacturing companies
Management Accounting , p. 54 - 59 Posted: 2000-07
Crossref
S Anderson , W Lanen
Economic transition, strategy and the evolution of management accounting practices: the case of India
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 24 , p. 379 - 412 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Ashton , T Hopper , R Scapens
The changing nature of issues in management accounting
Issues in Management Accounting Posted: 1995
A Asquer
In for a penne … , p. 28 - 29 Posted: 2003-03
Load more
7 Citations
Diah Agustina Prihastiwi , Mahfud Sholihin
Factors Affecting the Use of Management Accounting Practices in Small and Medium Enterprises: Evidence from Indonesia
Journal Dinamika Akuntansi, 10(2), 158-176 (September 2018) · 19 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 1,156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Davood Askarany
Characteristics of Innovation and the Diffusion of Benchmarking
Problems and Perspectives in Management, Vol 12 (4), P: 563-72., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper · 12 Pages · Posted: 23 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 44
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Davood Askarany
Attributes of Adopters and the Diffusion of Benchmarking
Journal of Applied Management Accounting Research, Vol 13 (2), P: 45-59., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper · 22 Pages · Posted: 23 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 33
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Davood Askarany
The Adoption of Balanced Scorecard through the Lenses of Contingency and the Diffusion Theories
Global Review of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 6. No. 1. Pp. 140 – 150., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, · 12 Pages · Posted: 23 Jun 2021 · Last revised: 24 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 59
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,893
RANK
41,785
7 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Influencing Contingencies on Management Accounting Practices in Estonian Manufacturing Companies

By Toomas Haldma and Kertu Laats

The Impact of Firm Characteristics on Management Accounting Practices: A UK-Based Empirical Analysis

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

IFAC's Conception of the Evolution of Management Accounting

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies