Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ERP Customization Failure: Institutionalized Accounting Practices, Power Relations and Market Forces

Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 250-299, 2007

21 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2009

Ahmed O. R. Kholeif

Edge Hill Business School

Magdy G. Abdel-Kader

Anglia Ruskin University

Michael J. Sherer

The University of Manchester

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Purpose: This paper examines a detailed case study of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) customization failure in an Egyptian state-owned company (AML) by drawing on new institutional sociology and its extensions. It explains how ERP customization failure is shaped by the interplay between institutionalized accounting practices, conflicting institutions, power relations and market forces.

Methodology/Approach: The research methodology is based on using an intensive case study informed by new institutional sociology, especially the interplay between conflicting institutions, power relations and market forces. Data were collected from multiple sources, including interviews, observations, discussions and documentary analysis.

Findings: The findings revealed that the inability of the ERP system to meet the core accounting requirements of the control authorities (the Central Agency for Accountability) was the explicit reason cited for the ERP failure. The externally imposed requirements of the Uniform Accounting System and planning budgets were used to resist both other institutional pressures (from the Holding Company for Engineering Industries) and market and competitive pressures.

Research limitations: There are some limitations associated with the use of the case study method, including the inability to generalize from the findings of a single case study, some selectivity in the individuals interviewed, and the subjective interpretation by the researchers of the empirical data.

Practical implications: The paper identifies that the interplay between institutional pressures, institutionalized accounting practices, intra-organizational power relations, and market forces contributed to the failure to embed ERP in a major company. Understanding such relationships can help other organizations to become more aware of the factors affecting successful implementation of new ERP systems and provide a better basis for planning the introduction of new technologies.

Originality/value of paper: This paper draws on recent research and thinking in sociology, especially the development and application of new institutional sociology. In addition, the paper is concerned with ERP implementation and use and management accounting in a transitional economy, Egypt, and hence contributes to debate about exporting Western accounting practices and other technologies to countries with different cultures and different stages of economic and political development.

Keywords: Enterprise Resource Planning, Institutionalised Accounting Practices, Egypt, New Institutional Sociology

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Kholeif, Ahmed O. R. and Abdel-Kader, Magdy G. and Sherer, Michael J., ERP Customization Failure: Institutionalized Accounting Practices, Power Relations and Market Forces (2007). Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 250-299, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1358271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
S R Barley , P S Tolbert
Institutionalization and Structuration: Studying the Links between Action and Institution
Organization Studies , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 117 Posted: 1997
Crossref
P Booth , Z Matolcsy , B Wieder
The Impacts of Enterprise Resource Planning Systems on Accounting Practices -The Australian Experience
Australian Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 4 - 18 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R J Briston , A A El-Ashker
The Egyptian Accounting System: A Case Study in Western Influence
International Journal of Accounting, Education and Research , p. 129 - 155 Posted: 1984
J Burns , R W Scapens
Conceptualising Management Accounting Change: An Institutional Framework
Management Accounting Research , volume 11 , p. 3 - 25 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,675
RANK
158,514
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies