Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Disturbance as a Catalyst for Implementation of IC Practice

Human Resources Cost & Accounting (HRCA) Conference, 6-8 December 2006, Stockholm, Sweden

40 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2009

John Dumay

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: December 6, 2006

Abstract

Purpose of this paper: The aim of this paper is to discuss using a case study approach, how an environmental change for an organisation can be a catalyst for the implementation of intellectual capital (IC) practice. In particular, it uses Laughlin's (1991) 'colonizing' model of organisational change to frame the discussion of transforming the accounting of IC.

Design/methodology/approach: This paper presents a case study of change in an Australian public sector organisation, being the New South Wales Department of Lands (Lands), which has implemented IC practice both internally and externally.

Findings: In the case of Lands, the impending retirements of the 'baby boomer' generation is an environmental disturbance and was a catalyst that allowed for the implementation of IC practice. Furthermore, Lands' IC practices have led to an accounting of IC, especially its human capital.

Research limitations/implications: This case study is limited to the presentation of findings of a phenomenon within a particular organisation within the Australian public sector context. In addition other forces may also have had an effect if not for the presence of the 'ageing workforce' disturbance.

Originality/value of paper: The paper discusses a gap in the IC literature which investigates how organisations implement IC practices and the impact of these practices on the organisation. In addition it discusses IC from the public sector perspective.

Keywords: Intellectual capital, organisational change, strategic management, ageing

JEL Classification: J24, J41

Suggested Citation:

Dumay, John and Guthrie, James, Environmental Disturbance as a Catalyst for Implementation of IC Practice (December 6, 2006). Human Resources Cost & Accounting (HRCA) Conference, 6-8 December 2006, Stockholm, Sweden, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1361268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Andriessen
IC valuation and measurement: classifying the state of the art
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 230 - 272 Posted: 2004
Crossref
K A April , P Bosma
IC measurement and reporting: establishing a practice in SA mining
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 180 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Organisational Renewal Posted: 2003
K Betts
The ageing of the population and attitudes towards immigration
People and Place , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 26 - 38 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
631,426
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Measurement of Firm-Specific Organization Capital

By Baruch Lev and Suresh Radhakrishnan

An Empirical Investigation of the Relationship between Intellectual Capital and Firms’ Market Value and Financial Performance

By Ming-chin Chen, Shu-ju Cheng, ...

Intellectual Capital and Firm Performance of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Study of the Resource-Based and Stakeholder Views

By Ahmed Riahi-belkaoui

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies