Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioral Studies of the Effects of Regulation on Earnings Management and Accounting Choice

ACCOUNTING, ORGANIZATIONS, AND INSTITUTIONS: ESSAYS FOR ANTHONY HOPWOOD, Oxford University Press, 2009

Johnson School Research Paper Series No. #16-09

40 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2009 Last revised: 14 Apr 2009

Robert Libby

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Date Written: March 21, 2009

Abstract

We review recent behavioral studies of the effects of regulation on earnings management and accounting choice. Our review examines the impact of financial reporting, auditing, and other corporate governance regulations on the beliefs and choices of managers, auditors and corporate directors. Behavioral studies contribute to the broader literature by shedding light on potential unintended consequences and overall efficacy of proposed regulations, revealing the roles of specific actors and the motives behind reporting choices, and demonstrating what determines managers' preferences for different earnings management methods (both real and accruals based). We also discuss areas that have received less attention that provide promising avenues for future behavioral research involving regulation, earnings management, and accounting choice.

Keywords: earnings management, accounting choice, financial reporting, regulation, corporate governance, auditing

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M49, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Libby, Robert and Seybert, Nicholas, Behavioral Studies of the Effects of Regulation on Earnings Management and Accounting Choice (March 21, 2009). ACCOUNTING, ORGANIZATIONS, AND INSTITUTIONS: ESSAYS FOR ANTHONY HOPWOOD, Oxford University Press, 2009, Johnson School Research Paper Series No. #16-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1366425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Audit Adjustments, Reporting on Consistency, and Service Organizations (Omnibus Statement on Auditing Standards -1999).Proposed Statement on Auditing Standards Exposure Draft Posted: 1999-04-22
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
The audit committee oversight process
Contemporary Accounting Research (forthcoming)
Crossref
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , K K Nelson
An alternative interpretation of the discontinuity in earnings distributions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 525 - 556 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J D Beeler , J E Hunton
Contingent economic rents: Insidious threats to audit independence
Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research , volume 5 , p. 21 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,356
RANK
9,153
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies