Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Procyclicality and Fair Value Accounting

IMF Working Paper No. 09/39

42 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2009

Juan A. Solé

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Alicia Novoa

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Jodi Scarlata

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Date Written: March 2009

Abstract

In light of the uncertainties about valuation highlighted by the 2007-2008 market turbulence, this paper provides an empirical examination of the potential procyclicality that fair value accounting (FVA) could introduce in bank balance sheets. The paper finds that, while weaknesses in the FVA methodology may introduce unintended procyclicality, it is still the preferred framework for financial institutions. It concludes that capital buffers, forward-looking provisioning, and more refined disclosures can mitigate the procyclicality of FVA. Going forward, the valuation approaches for accounting, prudential measures, and risk management need to be reconciled and will require adjustments on the part of all parties.

Keywords: Procyclicality, fair value accounting, bank capital

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M45, E32

Suggested Citation:

Sole, Juan A. and Novoa, Alicia and Scarlata, Jodi, Procyclicality and Fair Value Accounting (March 2009). IMF Working Paper No. 09/39, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1366168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
are valued at amortized cost throughout the cycle; and then (ii) in addition, "loans" and "mortgages" are also valued at amortized cost
V References
Crossref
V V Acharya , S T Bharath , A Srinivasan
Does Industry-wide Distress Affect Defaulted Firms?-Evidence from Creditor Recoveries
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 787 - 821 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E I Altman , B Brady , A Resti , A Sironi
The Link between Default and Recovery Rates: Theory, Empirical Evidence, and Implications
Journal of Business , volume 78 , issue 6 , p. 2203 - 2227 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,594
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,563
RANK
26,516
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Comparative Anatomy of Credit Risk Models

By Michael B. Gordy

Portfolio Credit Risk

By Thomas C. Wilson

A Risk-Factor Model Foundation for Ratings-Based Bank Capital Rules

By Michael B. Gordy

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies