Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Valuation Model Choice Affect Target Price Accuracy?

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2009

Efthimios Demirakos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Norman C. Strong

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: March 31, 2009

Abstract

We investigate whether the choice of valuation model affects the forecast accuracy of the target prices that investment analysts issue in their equity research reports, controlling for factors that influence this choice. We examine 490 equity research reports from international investment houses for 94 UK-listed firms published over the period 07/2002-06/2004. We use four measures of accuracy: (i) whether the target price is met during the 12-month forecast horizon (met_in); (ii) whether the target price is met on the last day of the 12-month forecast horizon (met_end); (iii) the absolute forecast error (abs_err); and (iv) the forecast error of target prices that are not met at the end of the 12-month forecast horizon (miss_err). Based on met_in and abs_err, price-to-earnings (PE) outperform DCF models, while based on met_end and miss_err the difference in valuation model performance is insignificant. However, after controlling for variables that capture the difficulty of the valuation task, the performance of DCF models improves in all specifications and, based on miss_err, they outperform PE models. These findings are robust to standard controls for selection bias.

Keywords: Equity valuation, investment analysts, target price accuracy, valuation model choice

JEL Classification: C25, G11, G24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Demirakos, Efthimios and Strong, Norman Charles and Walker, Martin, Does Valuation Model Choice Affect Target Price Accuracy? (March 31, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1370847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
P Asquith , M Mikhail , A Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Barker
The role of dividends in valuation models used by analysts and fund managers
European Accounting Review , volume 8 , p. 195 - 218 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Barker
Institutional investors, accounting information and the ASB Posted: 2001
S Block
A study of financial analysts: Practice and theory
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 55 , p. 86 - 95 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,037
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,505
RANK
49,788
21 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies