Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Value, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Cross-Listing in the US, Germany and Hong Kong Destinations

38 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2009 Last revised: 14 Feb 2011

Marcelo Bianconi

Tufts University - Department of Economics

Richard Chen

United States Agency for International Development (USAID)

Joe Akira Yoshino

University of São Paulo (USP) - Department of Economics

Date Written: November 10, 2010

Abstract

This paper presents empirical evidence on the effects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on the value of firms and on the cross-listing choice of firms destined to three major markets in North America, Asia and Europe. We use dynamic panel data methods and treatment effects methods to find that Sarbanes-Oxley has had a negative impact on the value of firms worldwide. Our evidence indicates that Sox may have segmented markets, with fewer and more valuable firms seeking the more stringent US market; but many more lower valued firms destined to Hong Kong and Germany seeking potential signaling benefits of crosslisting.

Keywords: Cross-listing, Sarbanes-Oxley, dynamic panel data, treatment effects

JEL Classification: G0, G3

Suggested Citation:

Bianconi, Marcelo and Chen, Richard and Yoshino, Joe Akira, Firm Value, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Cross-Listing in the US, Germany and Hong Kong Destinations (November 10, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1373897 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1373897
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Aigbe; Akhigbe , Anna D Martin
Valuation Impact of Sarbanes Oxley: Evidence from Disclosure and Governance within the Financial Services Industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 989 - 1006 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Gordon J Alexander , S Cheol , S Eun , Janakiramanan
International Listings and Stock Returns: Some Empirical Evidence
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 151 Posted: 1988-06
Crossref
Manuel Arellano , Stephen Bond
Some Tests of Specification for Panel Data: Monte Carlo Evidence and an Application to Employment Equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 97 Posted: 1991-04
Crossref
Sharad Asthana , Steven Balsam , Sungsoo Kim
The Effect of Enron, Andersen, and Sarbanes-Oxley on the Market for Audit Services
Posted: 9 Aug 2004 Last revised: 7 Dec 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,533
RANK
270,833
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies