Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discriminant Analysis and Prediction of Corporate Failure: A Critical Review

Finance and Accounting Research Monitor, Vol. 1, No. 1, June 2007

Posted: 16 Apr 2009

Prof. Suleiman A. S. Aruwa

Nasarawa State University

Date Written: June 30, 2007

Abstract

The ability to predict performance and future financial conditions is useful and important to management, investors, creditors and the economy. Not only because it provides an opportunity for the impact of intended operating and financial policies to be assessed, but more importantly because appropriate preventive measures such as changing operating and financial policies or even re-organization of the financial structure can be put in place in case of probable financial distress. This study therefore critically reviewed the various multivariate techniques of predicting corporate failure with a view to examining their effectiveness and predictive power. The review was done through an examination and analysis of relevant documents; articles in journals, magazines, economic and financial reviews and a host of others. The study specifically reviewed the works of Beaver(1967), Altman (1968 and 1977), Springate (1978); Fulmer (1984); Patrick (1931&1932); Merwin (1942); Taffler (1991); Edmister (1972); Osaze (1985); Blasztk (1984), the CAMEL model for the prediction of financial distress in banks, the Gamblers’ ruin models, the Artificial Neural Network models and a host of others. The review has revealed the inadequacies of univariate ratio analysis in predicting corporate failure and established the fact that financial ratios if analyzed within the context of multivariate framework, take greater statistical significance in predicting failure than univariate ratio analysis.

Suggested Citation:

Aruwa, Suleiman A. S., Discriminant Analysis and Prediction of Corporate Failure: A Critical Review (June 30, 2007). Finance and Accounting Research Monitor, Vol. 1, No. 1, June 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1384594
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,395
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies