Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Introduction to Principles-Based Accounting and its Application

Posted: 20 Apr 2009

Naser Makarem

University of Aberdeen

Date Written: April 18, 2009

Abstract

While reviewing the previous research on principles-based systems, formation of principles and rules, and their very nature, the present article attempts to suggest a perspective, and hence put forward some implications for the way the systems are applied. Although there are different understandings of principles-based and rules-based systems, substance over form illustrates the differences between this approaches in more sophisticated way. If we take principles in the very real sense of the term, there will be an inductive relation between principles and rules respectively. Numerous investigations have confirmed the merits of principles-based standards, but no system would be completely devoid of any rules; for what is practically applied are rules. Furthermore, sometimes fulfilling objectives underpinning principles involves setting some particular rules together with some exceptions. Reporting environment characteristics such as auditor characteristics plays a focal role in applying principles-based standards. One of the corner stones of principles-based systems is jurisdiction that could be applied by standard setters, firms, and auditors. Such jurisdictions are made in three levels (i.e objectives, principles, and rules).The increasing function of jurisdiction brings about an increasing importance of respecting the code of ethics in accounting. In order to apply principles-based systems ideally, firms and auditors jurisdictions must go beyond the realm of rules and target fulfilling objectives. In any condition it is not possible to have an absolutely principles-based system, nor such a system will be necessarily the best one, but rather what is of paramount importance is fulfilling financial reporting objectives.

Keywords: principles-based acounting, rules-based accounting, application of principles-based acounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Makarem, Naser, An Introduction to Principles-Based Accounting and its Application (April 18, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1391625
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,585
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies