Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Rationality to Hyperreality: Paradigm Poker

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 12, No. 4, 2003

Queen's School of Business Research Paper No. 04-09

14 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2009 Last revised: 6 May 2009

Norman B. Macintosh

Queen's University

Date Written: September 19, 2008

Abstract

This paper, following McGoun's (1997) seminal article comparing the economy of financial securities to a hyperreal poker game, argues that finance and accounting researchers should take the “linguistic turn” that has rejuvenated theory and research in many, if not most, of the social science and humanities in recent decades. In general terms, this means following Ludwig Wittgenstein's language game paradigm rather than Karl Popper's scientific deductive hypothesis testing methodology. The paper illustrates this by drawing on some of Jean Baudrillard's' ideas, particularly his concept of hyperreality and his phases of the image theoretic.

The paper presents a poststructuralist genealogical analysis of the radical ruptures and reformulation of the meaning attributed to the accounting sign of earnings over the feudal, counterfeit, production, and simulation eras. It concludes that, as with many other signs in contemporary society, the earnings sign no longer has any relationship with, nor does it any longer refer to, any real or intrinsic profit but instead floats ungrounded in today's financial economy.

The paper recommends that researchers in finance and accounting adopt paradigms from literary theory, semiotics, linguistics, and semiology rather than continue to rely on economics-based theory, which has lost its power for explaining and predicting happenings in today's financial economy of self-referencing models and images.

Keywords: Economic theory, Financial economy, Paradigm poker, Earnings management, Derivative securities, Black and Scholes modeling, Hyperreal financial economy, Phases of the image, Orders of simulacra, Accounting sign-of-signs, Linguistic turn, Baudrillard, Popper, Wittgenstein, Cambridge Moral Science Clu

JEL Classification: A11, A13, A14, A20, G13, G14, G15, G20, L21, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Macintosh, Norman B., From Rationality to Hyperreality: Paradigm Poker (September 19, 2008). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 12, No. 4, 2003, Queen's School of Business Research Paper No. 04-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392793
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
J Baudrillard
Simulations Posted: 1983
J Baudrillard
Simulacra and simulations
Imitations of postmodernity Posted: 1992
S Best , D Kellner
Postmodern theory: Critical interrogations Posted: 1976
T Eagleton
Literary theory: An introduction Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,371
RANK
180,781
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies