Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing the Earnings Surprise Strategy

16 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2009

Bill McDonald

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business - Department of Finance

Richard R. Mendenhall

University of Notre Dame - Department of Finance

Date Written: April 22, 2009

Abstract

We study the profitability of a strategy based on the earnings surprises. First, we attempt to identify variables, in addition to earnings surprise, that will improve our ability to predict post-earnings announcement returns. Second, we test a strategy based on the SUE effect using a stock-market simulation that considers transactions costs, short-sales constraints, and cash management issues, e.g., is cash available when a buy transaction is called for by the strategy? Discussions with practitioners indicate that assumption behind our simulation are fairly realistic. Our results, unfortunately, are inconclusive. While the SUE strategy earned significantly higher returns over the 1988 through 1992 time period than a buy-and-hold strategy, the superior performance was confined almost entirely to a two-year sub-period. That we can devise a simple strategy, however, with a turnover in excess of 300% per year that can perform as well as the value-weighted index over three years of the study and outperform it by a very wide margin for two years, suggests that money mangers might formulate more sophisticated strategies that can do even better.

Keywords: Market efficiency, Anomalies, Earnings, SUE, PEAD, Post-earnings announcement drift

JEL Classification: G14, M44

Suggested Citation:

McDonald, Bill and Mendenhall, Richard R., Implementing the Earnings Surprise Strategy (April 22, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1393403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1393403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
J Affleck-Graves , R Mendenhall
The Relation between the Value Line Enigma and PostEarnings-Announcement Drift
Journal of Financial Economics , p. 75 - 96 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 159 - 78 Posted: 1968
Crossref
V Bernard , J Thomas
Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift: Delayed Price Response or Risk Premium?
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 1989
Crossref
V Bernard , J Thomas
Evidence that Stock Prices Do Not Fully Reflect the Implications of Current Earnings for Future Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 305 - 340 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
827
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,287
RANK
67,992
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Security Analyst Superiority Relative to Univariate Time-Series Models in Forecasting Quarterly Earnings

By Lawrence D. Brown, Robert Hagerman, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Proxies for the Market's Assessment of Unexpected Earnings

By Lawrence D. Brown, Robert Hagerman, ...

Experience, Expertise and the Forecasting Performance of Security Analysts

By John Jacob, Thomas Z. Lys, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies