Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Binary Response and Logistic Regression in Recent Accounting Research Publications: A Methodological Note

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Vol. 34, No. 1, pp. 81-93, 2010

Posted: 28 Jun 2010

Wenxia Ge

University of Ottawa

G. A. Whitmore

McGill University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2009

Abstract

We review 31 articles in leading accounting journals that performed a logistic regression analysis for a binary dependent variable. Our review shows that many of these articles have ambiguities and errors in the presentation of the logistic regression model. We explain that incorrect presentations of the model, even in conjunction with a correct analysis, may lead to a serious misinterpretation of research findings. Two articles are critiqued to demonstrate the reporting problems. Our note is a call for improvement in model presentation and related statistical analysis in the accounting field.

Keywords: Binary response variable, Discriminant analysis, Logistic regression, Accounting research

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Wenxia and Whitmore, G. A., Binary Response and Logistic Regression in Recent Accounting Research Publications: A Methodological Note (May 1, 2009). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Vol. 34, No. 1, pp. 81-93, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1397730
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,711
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Information Technology & Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies