Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Productivity

CRENoS Working Paper No. 2008/18

48 Pages Posted: 7 May 2009

Massimo Del Gatto

CRENOS - Centre for North South Economic Research; 'Gabriele d'Annunzio' University of Chieti-Pescara - Faculty of Economics

Adriana Di Liberto

Università di Cagliari and Crenos; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Carmelo Petraglia

University of Basilicata, DiMIE

Date Written: December 2008

Abstract

Quantifying productivity is a conditio sine qua non for empirical analysis in a number of research ﬁelds. The identification of the measure that best ﬁts with the specific goals of the analysis, as well as being data-driven, is currently complicated by the fact that an array of methodologies is available. This paper provides economic researchers with an up-to-date overview of issues and relevant solutions associated with this choice. Methods of productivity measurement are surveyed and classified according to three main criteria: i) macro/micro; ii) frontier/non-frontier; iii) deterministic/econometric.

Keywords: productivity measurement, TFP, Solow residual, endogeneity, simultaneity, selection bias, Stochastic Frontier Analysis, DEA, Growth accounting, GMM, Olley-Pakes, ﬁrm heterogeneity, price dispersion

JEL Classification: O40, O33, O47, C14, C33, C43

Suggested Citation:

Del Gatto, Massimo and Del Gatto, Massimo and Di Liberto, Adriana and Petraglia, Carmelo, Measuring Productivity (December 2008). CRENoS Working Paper No. 2008/18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1400084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1400084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
M Abramovitz
Resource and Output Trends in the United States Since 1870
American Economic Review , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 5 - 23 Posted: 1956
Crossref
D Acemoglu , P Aghion , F Zilibotti
Distance to Frontier, Selection, and Economic Growth
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 74 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Ackerberg , K Caves , G Frazer
Structural identification of production functions Posted: 2006
P Aghion , P Howitt
A model of growth through creative destruction
Econometrica , volume 60 , p. 323 - 51 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Marco Sanfilippo
Investing Abroad from the Bottom of the Productivity Ladder – BRICS Multinationals in Europe
BOFIT Discussion Paper No. 26/2013 · 31 Pages · Posted: 4 Oct 2013 · Downloads: 75
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dimitris Giraleas , Ali Emrouznejad , Emmanuel Thanassoulis
Productivity change using growth accounting and frontier-based approaches – Evidence from a Monte Carlo analysis
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 222 , issue 3 , p. 673 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Marion Dovis
Formulation et estimation des modèles de mesure de la productivité totale des facteurs : une étude sur un panel d'entreprises turques
Revue d'économie politique , volume Vol. 119 , issue 6 , p. 945 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Yuan Zhou , Rong Zhou , Luyi Chen , Yun Zhao , Qintian Zhang
Environmental Policy Mixes and Green Industrial Development: An Empirical Study of the Chinese Textile Industry From 1998 to 2012
IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 742 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
922
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,259
RANK
58,519
4 Citations
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Productivity and Firm Selection: Quantifying the 'New' Gains from Trade

By Gregory Corcos, Massimo Del Gatto, ...

Deeper, Wider and More Competitive? Monetary Integration, Eastern Enlargement and Competitiveness in the European Union

By Gianmarco I.p. Ottaviano, Daria Taglioni, ...

Productivity and Firm Selection: Intra- vs International Trade

By Gregory Corcos, Massimo Del Gatto, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies