Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preprocessing of Training Set for Back Propagation Algorithm: Histogram Equalization

1994 IEEE International Conference on Neural Networks, IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence, Vol. 1, pp. 425-43, Orlando, FL, USA, June 27-June29, 1994

8 Pages Posted: 10 May 2009 Last revised: 15 Jun 2009

Taek M. Kwon

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Electrical and Computer Engineering

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Hui Pei Cheng

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 9, 2009

Abstract

This paper considered a preprocessing of input data to improve the performance of standardized BP learning algorithm. In general, even a simple uniform transformation into a proper range improves the efficiency of the BP algorithm. However, uniform transformation becomes inefficient if the input distribution is very skewed. To correct this problem, we propose a modified histogram equalization technique that converts the skewed and irregular distribution to a distribution favorable to the BP algorithm. Our simulation with the S&L failure classification data indicates that the proposed preprocessing leads to a better performance of the BP algorithm than a simple transformation or the conventional histogram equalization.

Keywords: Backpropagation, S&L, Banks, Failure Classification

JEL Classification: C45, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kwon, Taek M. and Feroz, Ehsan H. and Cheng, Hui Pei, Preprocessing of Training Set for Back Propagation Algorithm: Histogram Equalization (May 9, 2009). 1994 IEEE International Conference on Neural Networks, IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence, Vol. 1, pp. 425-43, Orlando, FL, USA, June 27-June29, 1994, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1401918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
RANK
444,118
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies