Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Market Trading Volume

THE HANDBOOK OF FINANCIAL ECONOMETRICS, Y. A¨ıt-Sahalia and L. Hansen, eds., New York: North-Holland, 2009

110 Pages Posted: 16 May 2009

Andrew W. Lo

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

Jiang Wang

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Abstract

If price and quantity are the fundamental building blocks of any theory of market interactions, the importance of trading volume in understanding the behavior of financial markets is clear. However, while many economic models of financial markets have been developed to explain the behavior of prices - predictability, variability, and information content - far less attention has been devoted to explaining the behavior of trading volume. In this chapter, we hope to expand our understanding of trading volume by developing well-articulated economic models of asset prices and volume and empirically estimating them using recently available daily volume data for individual securities from the University of Chicago's Center for Research in Securities Prices. Our theoretical contributions include: (1) an economic definition of volume that is most consistent with theoretical models of trading activity; (2) the derivation of volume implications of basic portfolio theory; and (3) the development of an intertemporal equilibrium model of asset market in which the trading process is determined endogenously by liquidity needs and risk-sharing motives. Our empirical contributions include: (1) the construction of a volume/returns database extract of the CRSP volume data; (2) comprehensive exploratory data analysis of both the time-series and cross-sectional properties of trading volume; (3) estimation and inference for price/volume relations implied by asset-pricing models; and (4) a new approach for empirically identifying factors to be included in a linear-factor model of asset returns using volume data.

Keywords: Trading Volume, Asset Pricing, Portfolio Theory, Mean-Variance Optimization

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Lo, Andrew W. and Wang, Jiang, Stock Market Trading Volume. THE HANDBOOK OF FINANCIAL ECONOMETRICS, Y. A¨ıt-Sahalia and L. Hansen, eds., New York: North-Holland, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1405583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
A Theory of Intraday Patterns: Volume and Price Variability
Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1988
Crossref
B B Ajinkya , P C Jain
The Behavior of Daily Stock Market Trading Volume
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , p. 331 - 359 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset Pricing and the Bid-Ask Spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Liquidity And Stock Returns
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 42 , p. 43 - 48 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,597
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,116
RANK
12,204
1 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects

By Yakov Amihud

Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns

By Lubos Pastor and Robert F. Stambaugh

Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns

By Lubos Pastor and Robert F. Stambaugh

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies