Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Perspective and Usefulness of Accounting Information

Presented in the 3rd Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance organised by La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia on 12th and 13th April 2012.

23 Pages Posted: 22 May 2009 Last revised: 14 Dec 2012

Samithamby Senthilnathan

International Training Institute

Date Written: May 18, 2009

Abstract

Relevance of earnings for explaining equity prices is investigated by many value relevance studies. This study investigates whether fiscal year end earnings as a proxy for next period’s earnings have additional information, beyond the information incorporated in contemporaneous equity price, for explaining next fiscal period’s end equity price. Results show that earnings have statistically significant additional information for explaining next fiscal year end equity price, even though the explanatory power of earnings is very low as not considerably supported for model utility. As Ohlson (1995) explores informativeness of fiscal year end earnings as a proxy for next period’s earnings, two alternative models are suggested, where next fiscal year end equity price and price change are considered as the dependent variable and fiscal year end (current) equity price is accommodated as an additional explanatory variable. However, using stationary price change as the dependent variable would be much useful in value relevance studies for econometric reasons. In this context, fiscal year end equity price provides a benchmark to assess additional informativeness of earnings and facilitate the estimated coefficients of earnings to capture and represent the information incorporated in the earnings data.

Keywords: accounting, earnings, equity price, price change, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M49, G12

Suggested Citation:

Senthilnathan, Samithamby, The Information Perspective and Usefulness of Accounting Information (May 18, 2009). Presented in the 3rd Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance organised by La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia on 12th and 13th April 2012., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1406788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1406788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R Aggarwal , N A Kyaw
Equity Market Integration in the NAFTA Region: Evidence from Unit Root and Cointegration Tests
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 393 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
K H Bae , S W Jeong
The value relevance of earnings and book value, ownership structure, and business group affiliation: evidence from Korean business groups
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 34 , issue 5 , p. 740 - 766 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Barth , W Beaver , W Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as a function of financial health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Crossref
W Beaver , R Lambert , D Morse
The information content of security prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 28 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,078
RANK
122,782
2 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Theoretical Role of the Most Recent Prior Period’s Equity Price in Value Relevance Studies

By Samithamby Senthilnathan

Acquisition-Related Provision-Taking and Post-Acquisition Performance in the UK Prior to Frs 7

By Stephen Brown, Ole-kristian Hope, ...

NAFTA and Convergence in North America: High Expectations, Big Events, Little Time

By William Easterly, Norbert M. Fiess, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies