Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing Value Relevance of Accounting Earnings in Emerging Markets

20 Pages Posted: 28 May 2009

Karol Marek Klimczak

Lodz University of Technology

Date Written: May 26, 2009

Abstract

Relevance of accounting earnings for market value of companies has been subject to numerous empirical studies, which generally support the hypothesis of value relevance in developed countries. Recently a growing number of papers focus on the usefulness of accounting information in emerging countries. These studies adopt value relevance methodology to test for the association between accounting earnings reported by listed companies, and the value of their equity: a positive result of the test serves as proof of the quality of accounting standards, accounting practice and the local stock market. The aim of this paper is to discuss theory and methodology of these tests in order to determine a set of guidelines for value relevance testing. A number of alternative models are estimated on a common data set and compared. Results show that model selection has a significant impact on value relevance tests and inferences as to the quality of accounting information.

Keywords: value relevance, accounting earnings, equity valuation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Klimczak, Karol Marek, Testing Value Relevance of Accounting Earnings in Emerging Markets (May 26, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1410053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1410053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , Ann Kie , Wong , A Wu
The Information Environment of China's A and B Shares: Can We Make Sense of the Numbers?
International Journal of Accounting , volume 34 , issue 4 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Abody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring Value Relevance in a (Possibly) Inefficient Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
K V Auer
Capital market reactions to earnings announcements: empirical evidence on the difference in the information content of IAS-based earnings and EC-Directives-based earnings
European Accounting Review , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 587 - 623 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
893
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,800
RANK
61,213
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies