Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation Between Expected Returns, Realized Returns, and Firm Risk Characteristics*

47 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2009 Last revised: 10 Apr 2010

Christine Botosan

Financial Accounting Standards Board

Marlene Plumlee

University of Utah - School of Accounting

Jennifer Chen

University of Missouri-St. Louis

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

Existing literature employs two approaches to assess the validity of alternative proxies for firm-specific cost of equity capital (Et-1(rt)). One approach relies on the expected link between future realized returns and Et-1(rt), while the second approach relies on the expected relation between Et-1(rt) and firm-specific priced risk characteristics. The results of these two streams of literature are mixed with the first (second) approach providing no (strong) support for the construct validity of any (some) of the Et-1(rt) proxies examined. In this paper, we resolve the conflict between these two streams of research. In contrast to prior research, we document a strong positive association between the implied cost of capital estimates and future realized returns. We demonstrate that the negative or insignificant association between implied cost of capital estimates and future realized returns documented in prior research is due to empirical misspecification. Moreover, we show that although most of the estimates we examine are positively associated with future realized returns, only two, rDIV and rPEG, are also predictably related to firm-specific risk. Taken together our results suggest that rDIV and rPEG provide superior proxies for Et-1(rt).

Keywords: Expected return, cost of equity capital, risk premium, cash flow news,realized returns

JEL Classification: G12, M40, M41, M46, G31

Suggested Citation:

Botosan, Christine and Plumlee, Marlene A. and Chen, Jennifer, The Relation Between Expected Returns, Realized Returns, and Firm Risk Characteristics* (March 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1410110 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1410110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
O Barron , D Harris , M Stanford
Evidence that investors trade on private event-period information around earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , p. 403 - 421 Posted: 2005-04
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , Yaniv Konchitchki , Wayne R. Landsman
Cost of Capital and Earnings Transparency
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 2015, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 48 Pages: 58 Posted: 25 Feb 2009 Last revised: 14 May 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
W Beaver , P Kettler , M Scholes
The association between market determined and accounting determined risk measures
The Accounting Review , p. 654 - 681 Posted: 1970-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,043
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,220
RANK
49,362
32 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies