Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Dynamic Feedbacks on LS and MM Estimator Accuracy in Panel Data Models: Some Additional Results

26 Pages Posted: 31 May 2009 Last revised: 21 Feb 2012

Kazuhiko Hayakawa

Hiroshima University

Date Written: June 10, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, we show that the order of magnitude of the finite sample bias of the GMMld^{(2)} estimator of Bun and Kiviet (2006) can be reduce from O(T/N) to O(1/N) if the optimal weighting matrix is used. To demonstrate this result, we consider a model transformed by the upper triangular Cholesky factorization of the inverse of the variance matrix of error component u_i. Some variants of the system GMM estimator that are associated with the Cholesky-transformed model are also discussed.

Suggested Citation:

Hayakawa, Kazuhiko, The Effects of Dynamic Feedbacks on LS and MM Estimator Accuracy in Panel Data Models: Some Additional Results (June 10, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1412082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1412082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Steven Chong Xiao
Do Noisy Stock Prices Impede Real Efficiency?
Management Science, Forthcoming · 61 Pages · Posted: 11 Jul 2018 · Last revised: 11 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 294
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kazuhiko Hayakawa , Meng Qi
Further Results on The  Weak Instruments Problem of the System  GMM  Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models
Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics, Vol. 82, Issue 2, pp. 453-481, 2020 · 29 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 9
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,960
RANK
560,264
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Single Equation Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Dynamic Feedbacks on Ls and Mm Estimator Accuracy in Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Jan F. Kiviet

The Weak Instrument Problem of the System GMM Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Frank Windmeijer

The Weak Instrument Problem of the System GMM Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Frank Windmeijer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies