Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Theory of Marginal Tax Rates for Alternative Minimum Tax Firms

Advnances in Financial Planning and Forecasting, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2009 Last revised: 9 May 2011

Buagu Musazi

Morgan State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

B. Anthony Billings

Wayne State University

Date Written: June 1, 2009

Abstract

Due to the complexity of the alternative minimum tax (AMT), marginal tax rates (MTR) estimation studies deem AMT firms’ MTRs almost impossible to estimate. We develop an analytical model for estimating AMT firms’ MTRs. The model shows that AMT firms’ MTRs are essentially the opportunity cost of AMT payments: it is a rate of return weighted average of the firm’s effective tax rate and the statutory AMT rate. Retests utilizing AMT MTRs, instead of the traditional MTRs, for AMT firms in two prior empirical studies reveal improved statistical significance of the MTR coefficient. The impact of applying AMT MTR in empirical estimates may depend on the proportion and characteristics of AMT firms in the sample.

Keywords: Marginal tax rates, Alternative minimum tax, Net operating loss carryforwards

JEL Classification: C02, H25, H22, H32

Suggested Citation:

Musazi, Buagu and Billings, B. Anthony, The Theory of Marginal Tax Rates for Alternative Minimum Tax Firms (June 1, 2009). Advnances in Financial Planning and Forecasting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1412881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
B A Billings , J L Hamilton
Taxes and the acquisition of depreciable assets: The Tax Reform Act of 1986 and the alternative minimum tax
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 21 , p. 423 - 452 Posted: 2002
D S Callihan , R A White
An application of the Scholes and Wolfson Model to examine the relation between implicit and explicit taxes and firm market structure
The Journal of the American Accounting Association , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 1999
Crossref
W Choi , J D Gramlich , J K Thomas
Potential errors in detection of earnings management: reexamining the studies of the AMT of 1986
Contemporary Accounting Research. Toronto: Winter , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 613 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Dhaliwal , S Wang
The effect of book income adjustment in the 1986 alternative minimum tax on corporate financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 7 - 26 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
807
RANK
534,717
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies