Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Asymptotic Properties of the System GMM Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models When Both N and T are Large

59 Pages Posted: 31 May 2009 Last revised: 1 Feb 2014

Kazuhiko Hayakawa

Hiroshima University

Date Written: February 1, 2014

Abstract

In this paper, we derive the asymptotic properties of the system GMM estimator in dynamic panel data models with individual and time effects when both N and T, the dimensions of cross section and time series, are large. We first show that the two-step level GMM estimator with an optimal weighting matrix is consistent under large N and T asymptotics, whereas that with a non-optimal one is not. We then show that the two-step system GMM estimator is consistent even if a sub-optimal weighting matrix where off-diagonal blocks are set to zero is used. Such consistency results theoretically support the use of the system GMM estimator in large N and T contexts even though it was originally developed for large N and small T panels. Simulation results indicate that the large N and large T asymptotic results approximate the finite sample behavior reasonably well unless persistency of data is strong and/or the variance ratio of individual effects to the disturbances is large.

Suggested Citation:

Hayakawa, Kazuhiko, The Asymptotic Properties of the System GMM Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models When Both N and T are Large (February 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1412035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1412035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S C Ahn , P Schmidt
Efficient Estimation of Models for Dynamic Panel Data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S C Ahn , P Schmidt
Efficient Estimation of Dynamic Panel Data Models: Alternative Assumptions and Simplified Estimation
Journal of Econometrics , volume 76 , p. 309 - 321 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C Alonso-Borrego , M Arellano
Symmetrically Normalized Instrumental-Variable Estimation Using Panel Data
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 17 , p. 36 - 49 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Alvarez , M Arellano
The Time Series and Cross-Section Asymptotics of Dynamic Panel Data Estimators
Econometrica , volume 71 , p. 1121 - 1159 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
662
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,730
RANK
90,938
8 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Single Equation Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Dynamic Feedbacks on Ls and Mm Estimator Accuracy in Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Jan F. Kiviet

The Weak Instrument Problem of the System GMM Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Frank Windmeijer

The Weak Instrument Problem of the System GMM Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Frank Windmeijer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies