Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Computation in an Asymptotic Expansion Method

CARF Working Paper Series CARF-F-149

51 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2009 Last revised: 25 Aug 2011

Akihiko Takahashi

University of Tokyo - Faculty of Economics

Kohta Takehara

Tokyo Metropolitan University

Masashi Toda

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Date Written: May 31, 2009

Abstract

An asymptotic expansion scheme in finance initiated by Kunitomo and Takahashi [15] and Yoshida [68] is a widely applicable methodology for analytic approximation of the expectation of a certain functional of diffusion processes. [46], [47] and [53] provide explicit formulas of conditional expectations necessary for the asymptotic expansion up to the third order. In general, the crucial step in practical applications of the expansion is calculation of conditional expectations for a certain kind of Wiener functionals. This paper presents two methods for computing the conditional expectations that are powerful especially for high order expansions: The first one, an extension of the method introduced by the preceding papers presents a general scheme for computation of the conditional expectations and show the formulas useful for expansions up to the fourth order explicitly. The second one develops a new calculation algorithm for computing the coefficients of the expansion through solving a system of ordinary differential equations that is equivalent to computing the conditional expectations. To demonstrate their effectiveness, the paper gives numerical examples of the approximation for λ-SABR model up to the fifth order and a cross-currency Libor market model with a general stochastic volatility model of the spot foreign exchange rate up to the fourth order.

Keywords: asymptotic expansion, stochastic volatility, λ-SABR model, Libor market model, Malliavin calculus, cross currency model, foreign exchange rate option (Forex Option)

Suggested Citation:

Takahashi, Akihiko and Takehara, Kohta and Toda, Masashi, Computation in an Asymptotic Expansion Method (May 31, 2009). CARF Working Paper Series CARF-F-149, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1413924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
K Bichteler , J.-B Gravereaux , J Jacod
Malliavin Calculus for Processes with Jumps , volume 2 Posted: 1987
Crossref
T Björk
Arbitrage Theory in Continuous Time Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Carr , R Jarrow , R Myneni
Alternative characterizations of American put options
Mathematical Finance , volume 2 , p. 87 - 106 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A Dermoune , Y Kutoyants
Expansion of distribution of Maximum Likelihood Estimate for Misspecified Diffusion Type Observation
Stochastics and Stochastic Reports , volume 52 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 121 - 145 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
19 Citations
Akihiko Takahashi , Toshihiro Yamada
A Weak Approximation with Asymptotic Expansion and Multidimensional Malliavin Weights
32 Pages · Posted: 23 Nov 2013 · Last revised: 12 May 2015 · Downloads: 166
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yoshifumi Muroi , E. Kazuhiro Takino
Pricing Derivatives using the Asymptotic Expansion Approach: Credit Migration Models with Stochastic Credit Spreads
Asia-Pacific Financial Markets , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 345 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Kenichiro Shiraya , Akihiko Takahashi
Pricing average options on commodities
Journal of Futures Markets , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 407 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Kenichiro Shiraya , Akihiko Takahashi , Toshihiro Yamada
Pricing Discrete Barrier Options Under Stochastic Volatility
Asia-Pacific Financial Markets , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 205 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
774
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,754
RANK
74,287
19 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

A Hybrid Asymptotic Expansion Scheme: An Application to Long-Term Currency Options

By Akihiko Takahashi and Kohta Takehara

General Asymptotics of Wiener Functionals and Application to Mathematical Finance

By Yasufumi Osajima

An Asymptotic Expansion Approach in Finance

By Akihiko Takahashi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies