Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Paradox of Inconsistent Parametric and Consistent Nonparametric Regression

Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1704

32 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2009

Peter C. B. Phillips

University of Auckland Business School; Yale University - Cowles Foundation; Singapore Management University - School of Economics

Liangjun Su

Singapore Management University - School of Economics

Date Written: June 4, 2009

Abstract

This paper explores a paradox discovered in recent work by Phillips and Su (2009). That paper gave an example in which nonparametric regression is consistent whereas parametric regression is inconsistent even when the true regression functional form is known and used in regression. This appears to be a paradox, as knowing the true functional form should not in general be detrimental in regression. In the present case, local regression methods turn out to have a distinct advantage because of endogeneity in the regressor. The paradox arises because additional correct information is not necessarily advantageous when information is incomplete. In the present case, endogeneity in the regressor introduces bias when the true functional form is known, but interestingly does not do so in local nonparametric regression. We examine this example in detail and propose two new consistent estimators for the parametric regression, which address the endogeneity in the regressor by means of spatial bounding and bias correction using nonparametric estimation. Some simulations are reported illustrating the paradox and the new procedures.

Keywords: bias-correction, endogeneity, Kernel regression, L_{2} regression, location shift, nonparametric IV, nonstationarity, paradox, spatial regression, structural estimation

JEL Classification: C13, C14

Suggested Citation:

Phillips, Peter C. B. and Su, Liangjun, A Paradox of Inconsistent Parametric and Consistent Nonparametric Regression (June 4, 2009). Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1704, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1414345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1414345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
F J Anscombe
Rejection of outliers
Technometrics , volume 2 , p. 123 - 147 Posted: 1960
Crossref
L-A Chen , A H Welsh , W Chan
Estimators for the linear regression model based on winsorized observations
Statistica Sinica , volume 11 , p. 147 - 172 Posted: 2001
P Hall , J L Horowitz
Nonparametric methods for inference in the presence of instrumental variables
Annals of Statistics , volume 33 , p. 2904 - 2929 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Peter C. B. Phillips , Liangjun Su
Nonparametric Structural Estimation Via Continuous Location Shifts in an Endogenous Regressor
Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1702 Pages: 43 Posted: 4 Jun 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,142
RANK
459,150
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Asymptotic Theory for Local Time Density Estimation and Nonparametric Cointegration Regression

By Qiying Wang and Peter C. B. Phillips

Structural Nonparametric Cointegrating Regression

By Qiying Wang and Peter C. B. Phillips

Limit Theorems for Functionals of Sums that Converge to Fractional Stable Motions

By P. Jeganathan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies