Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonparametric Structural Estimation Via Continuous Location Shifts in an Endogenous Regressor

Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1702

43 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2009

Peter C. B. Phillips

University of Auckland Business School; Yale University - Cowles Foundation; Singapore Management University - School of Economics

Liangjun Su

Singapore Management University - School of Economics

Date Written: June 4, 2009

Abstract

Recent work by Wang and Phillips (2009b, c) has shown that ill posed inverse problems do not arise in nonstationary nonparametric regression and there is no need for nonparametric instrumental variable estimation. Instead, simple Nadaraya Watson nonparametric estimation of a (possibly nonlinear) cointegrating regression equation is consistent with a limiting (mixed) normal distribution irrespective of the endogeneity in the regressor, near integration as well as integration in the regressor, and serial dependence in the regression equation. The present paper shows that some closely related results apply in the case of structural nonparametric regression with independent data when there are continuous location shifts in the regressor. In such cases, location shifts serve as an instrumental variable in tracing out the regression line similar to the random wandering nature of the regressor in a cointegrating regression. Asymptotic theory is given for local level and local linear nonparametric estimators, links with nonstationary cointegrating regression theory and nonparametric IV regression are explored, and extensions to the stationary strong mixing case are given. In contrast to standard nonparametric limit theory, local level and local linear estimators have identical limit distributions, so the local linear approach has no apparent advantage in the present context. Some interesting cases are discovered, which appear to be new in the literature, where nonparametric estimation is consistent whereas parametric regression is inconsistent even when the true (parametric) regression function is known. The methods are further applied to establish a limit theory for nonparametric estimation of structural panel data models with endogenous regressors and individual effects. Some simulation evidence is reported.

Keywords: fixed effects, kernel regression, location shift, mixing, nonparametric IV, nonstationarity, panel model, structural estimation

JEL Classification: C13, C14

Suggested Citation:

Phillips, Peter C. B. and Su, Liangjun, Nonparametric Structural Estimation Via Continuous Location Shifts in an Endogenous Regressor (June 4, 2009). Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1702, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1414338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1414338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
)% A )3 ! 34!4) , volume 29
$%:.%$ )
!&quot;! , !)!-
@IB89@@@ ++ 00 5B8 ## %% )CK9@@ RRB8C;9B9=HM =B G9A=D5F5A9HF=7 5B8 BCBD5F5A9HF=7 F9;F9GG=CB AC89@GGS "B $6!.#%3 ). #/./-)#3 !.$ #/./-%42)#33 (%/29 !.$ 00
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Peter C. B. Phillips , Liangjun Su
Non‐parametric regression under location shifts
The Econometrics Journal , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 457 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Peter C. B. Phillips , Liangjun Su
A Paradox of Inconsistent Parametric and Consistent Nonparametric Regression
Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1704 · 32 Pages · Posted: 5 Jun 2009 · Downloads: 146
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,807
RANK
618,599
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Asymptotic Theory for Local Time Density Estimation and Nonparametric Cointegration Regression

By Qiying Wang and Peter C. B. Phillips

Structural Nonparametric Cointegrating Regression

By Qiying Wang and Peter C. B. Phillips

Limit Theorems for Functionals of Sums that Converge to Fractional Stable Motions

By P. Jeganathan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies