Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Productivity Shocks and Aggregate Cycles in an Estimated Endogenous Growth Model

Working Paper No. 416

39 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2009

Jim Malley

University of Glasgow - Department of Economics

Ulrich Woitek

University of Zurich

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 5, 2009

Abstract

Using a two-sector endogenous growth model, this paper explores how productivity shocks in the goods and human capital producing sectors contribute to explaining aggregate cycles in output, consumption, investment and hours. To contextualize our findings, we also assess whether the human capital model or the standard real business cycle (RBC) model better explains the observed variation in these aggregates. We find that while neither of the workhorse growth models uniformly dominates the other across all variables and forecast horizons, the two-sector model provides a far better fit to the data. Some other key results are first, that Hicks-neutral shocks explain a greater share of output and consumption variation at shorter-forecast horizons whereas human capital productivity innovations dominate at longer ones. Second, the combined explanatory power of the two technology shocks in the human capital model is greater than the Hicks-neutral shock in the RBC model in the medium- and long-term for output and consumption. Finally, the RBC model outperforms the two-sector model with respect to explaining the observed variation in investment and hours.

Keywords: endogenous growth, human capital, real business cycles, Bayesian estimation, VAR errors

JEL Classification: C11, C52, E32

Suggested Citation:

Malley, Jim and Woitek, Ulrich, Productivity Shocks and Aggregate Cycles in an Estimated Endogenous Growth Model (June 5, 2009). Working Paper No. 416, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1416004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1416004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
P Aghion , P Howitt
Endogenous Growth Theory. Cambridge Posted: 1997
C Azariadis , A Drazen
Threshold externalities in economic development
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , p. 501 - 526 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Barro , X Sala-I-Martin
Economic Growth Posted: 2004
R Barro
Human capital and growth, American Economic Review , volume 91 , p. 12 - 17 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,423
RANK
334,632
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Nominal Rigidities and the Dynamic Effects of a Shock to Monetary Policy

By Lawrence J. Christiano, Martin Eichenbaum, ...

Nominal Rigidities and the Dynamic Effects of a Shock to Monetary Policy

By Lawrence J. Christiano, Martin Eichenbaum, ...

An Estimated Stochastic Dynamic General Equilibrium Model of the Euro Area

By Frank Smets and Rafael Wouters

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies