Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Aggregate Experts Discount Rates: An Equilibrium Approach

19 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2009 Last revised: 6 Dec 2009

Elyes Jouini

Univ. Paris Dauphine - CEREMADE

Clotilde Napp

CNRS and Université Paris-Dauphine ; IZA

Date Written: September 10, 2009

Abstract

We address the problem of a social planner who, as in Weitzman (2001), gathers data on experts’ discount rates and wants to infer the socially efficient consumption discount rate. We propose an ‘equilibrium approach’ and we analyse the expression and the properties of the resulting ‘equilibrium discount rate’. We compare our expression for the discount rate with the different expressions that have been previously proposed in the literature. We analyse the impact of shifts in the distributions of experts discount rates. Finally, we apply our approach to Weitzman (2001)’s data to propose discount rates for public sector Cost-Benefit Analysis, in particular for the long term.

Keywords: consumption discount rate, equilibrium discount rate, experts discount rate, hyperbolic discounting, cost-benefit analysis, gamma discounting, divergence of opinion

JEL Classification: H43

Suggested Citation:

Jouini, Elyes and Napp, Clotilde, How to Aggregate Experts Discount Rates: An Equilibrium Approach (September 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1417413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1417413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,129
RANK
605,468
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Universite Paris-Dauphine Research Papers Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies