Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Ohlson (1995) Model an Example of the Simpson's Paradox?

10 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2009

Samithamby Senthilnathan

International Training Institute

Date Written: June 11, 2009

Abstract

The Ohlson (1995) equity valuation and returns models are consistent with mathematical formulation. Since value relevance models that relate Ohlson (1995) focus on information dynamics of accounting and other information for explaining equity value, an inconsistency between Ohlson’s (1995) simplified model for valuation and re-formulation of returns related model is observed where one model makes the other incomplete for information dynamics of variables in models, though mathematical formulations confirm the relationship of those models. Hence, the information dynamics of these mathematically formulated models makes questioning whether Ohlson’s (1995) explanation is an example of the "Simpson’s paradox".

Keywords: value relevance, information dynamics, Simpson’s paradox, accounting, earnings, equity price

JEL Classification: C10, C13, C19, C30, C31, C32, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Senthilnathan, Samithamby, Is the Ohlson (1995) Model an Example of the Simpson's Paradox? (June 11, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1417746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1417746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
S Akbar , A W Stark
Deflators, net shareholder cash flows, dividends, capital contributions and estimated models of corporate valuation
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 30 , p. 1211 - 1233 Posted: 2003
Crossref
O A Arah
The role of causal reasoning in understanding Simpson's paradox, Lord's paradox, and the suppression effect: covariate selection in the analysis of observational studies
BioMed Central Limited Posted: 2008
Crossref
K H Bae , S W Jeong
The value relevance of earnings and book value, ownership structure, and business group affiliation: evidence from Korean business groups
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 34 , p. 740 - 766 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Brown , K Lo , T Lys
Use of R 2 in accounting research: measuring changes in value relevance over the last four decades
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 83 - 115 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,105
RANK
360,957
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Theoretical Role of the Most Recent Prior Period’s Equity Price in Value Relevance Studies

By Samithamby Senthilnathan

The Information Perspective and Usefulness of Accounting Information

By Samithamby Senthilnathan

Acquisition-Related Provision-Taking and Post-Acquisition Performance in the UK Prior to Frs 7

By Stephen Brown, Ole-kristian Hope, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies