Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting Stock Returns: Does Switching Between Models Help?

31 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2009

David G. McMillan

University of Stirling

Date Written: June 12, 2009

Abstract

Research examining the usefulness of non-linear models for stock market returns has almost reached an impasse. While there is general recognition of the superior ability of non-linear models to describe the data, there is less certainty about their ability to forecast the data. As such simple linear models often dominate in forecasting exercises due to their simplicity and any loss with respect to non-linear models is not economically significant. This paper primarily examines not whether a non-linear model can beat a linear model in a straight horse race but whether allowing for the forecast to be given by either the non-linear or linear model depending upon some in-sample criteria provides for improved forecasts. Using a sample of eight international stock markets over the period 1990-2007 our results suggest that on the basis of a trading rule simulation then this model switching approach may provide for forecast improvement although general results based on forecast error metrics are mixed. Nonetheless, the results support the view that this model switching approach is certainly an avenue whereby the value of non-linear forecasts can be realised and is worthy of further exploration.

Keywords: stock market returns, STAR, switching models, forecasting

JEL Classification: C22, G12

Suggested Citation:

McMillan, David G., Forecasting Stock Returns: Does Switching Between Models Help? (June 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1418593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1418593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Bohl , P L Siklos
The present value model of US stock prices redux: A new testing strategy and some evidence
Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 44 , p. 208 - 223 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Bradley , D W Jansen
Forecasting with a nonlinear dynamic model of stock returns and industrial production
International Journal of Forecasting , volume 20 , p. 321 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Bredin , S Hyde
Regime changes in the relationship between stock returns and the macroeconomy Posted: 2005
Bredin , S Hyde
Regime change and the role of international markets on the stock returns of small open economies', forthcoming in European Financial Management Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,100
RANK
248,977
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Forecasting Stock Indices: A Comparison of Classification and Level Estimation Models

By Mark T. Leung, Hazem Daouk, ...

Are the Dynamic Linkages between the Macroeconomy and Asset Prices Time-Varying?

By Sadayuki Ono and Massimo Guidolin

Non-Linear Predictability in Stock and Bond Returns: When and Where is it Exploitable?

By Massimo Guidolin, Stuart Hyde, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies