Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Riskmetrics 2006 Methodology

63 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2009

Gilles O. Zumbach

Edgelab; Consulting in Financial Engineering

Date Written: March 15, 2007

Abstract

The new RM2006 methodology to evaluate market risks is introduced. It is designed to be more accurate than the existing methodologies, and to be able to reach long risk horizons, up to one year. Consistency across risk horizons is obtained by building the methodology using a long memory ARCH process to compute the required forecasts. A large data set covering the main asset classes and geographical areas is used to validate the various sub-components of the methodology. Extensive backtesting using probtiles is done to assess the final performance, as well as the contributions of the various parts. One key quantitative result is that the new methodology applied to a risk horizon of three months is more accurate than the exponential moving average scheme at a risk horizon of one day. This quantitative improvement allows us to analyse risks in a portfolio both at tactical and strategic time horizons.

Keywords: risk evaluation, RM2006, heteroskedasticity, fat-tail, long-memory ARCH process

Suggested Citation:

Zumbach, Gilles, The Riskmetrics 2006 Methodology (March 15, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Bank for International Settlement, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
BIS Posted: 1992
[ Bormetti
Risk measures with non-gaussian fluctuations Posted: 2006
[ Diebold
Evaluating density forecasts with applications to financial risk management
International Economic Review , volume 39 , p. 863 - 883 Posted: 1998
Crossref
F Drost , T Nijman
Temporal aggregation of garch processes
Econometrica , volume 61 , p. 909 - 927 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,251
RANK
15,848
52 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Volatility Processes and Volatility Forecast with Long Memory

By Gilles O. Zumbach

Modelling Short-Term Volatility with GARCH and Harch Models

By Michel M. Dacorogna, Ulrich A. Müller, ...

Heterogeneous Volatility Cascade in Financial Markets

By Gilles O. Zumbach and Paul Lynch

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies