Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimation of Factors for Term Structures with Dependence Clusters

53 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2009 Last revised: 14 May 2010

Dennis Philip

Durham University Business School

Date Written: May 14, 2010

Abstract

This paper studies the importance of accounting for term structure maturity clusters while estimating latent factors, for the purpose of forecasting yield curves. The maturity clusters are identified using a hierarchical clustering algorithm. We then propose a new block dynamic Nelson-Siegel model to account for the separate dynamics driving the different clusters.

For the US zero coupon bond term structure, we find two (short and long) maturity clusters. The level, slope, and curvature factors driving the two clusters are loosely dependent on each other and further, this dependence is also time-varying. The block dynamic model fits the clustered bond term structure well and produces superior out-of-sample forecasts for the short and medium term maturities, suggesting that clustering is a vital feature that cannot be ignored when estimating common factors in term structures. We further extend the empirical application to the case of Libor-Swap term structure and draw similar conclusions.

Keywords: term structure, yield curve, dependence clusters, dynamic factor model, Nelson-Siegel models

JEL Classification: C3, C5, E4, G1

Suggested Citation:

Philip, Dennis, Estimation of Factors for Term Structures with Dependence Clusters (May 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420773 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
K Abberger
Graphical method to explore tail-dependence in stock returns
Applied Financial Economics , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 51 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D K Backus , S E Zin
Reverse engineering the yield curve
Working Paper Series , volume 4676 Posted: 1994
Crossref
C Bernadell , J Coche , K Nyholm
Yield curve prediction for the strategic investor Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Bernaschi , L Grilli , D Vergni
Statistical analysis of …xed income market
Physica A , volume 308 , p. 381 - 390 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,563
RANK
429,664
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Specification Analysis of Affine Term Structure Models

By Qiang Dai and Kenneth J. Singleton

Specification Analysis of Affine Term Structure Models

By Qiang Dai and Kenneth J. Singleton

A No-Arbitrage Vector Autoregression of Term Structure Dynamics with Macroeconomic and Latent Variables

By Andrew Ang and Monika Piazzesi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies