Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Characterizing Heteroskedasticity

21 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2009

Gilles O. Zumbach

Edgelab; Consulting in Financial Engineering

Date Written: April 14, 2009

Abstract

The volatility clustering, or heteroskedasticity, is an important feature of all financial time series. In particular, the lagged correlation for the volatility is slowly decreasing with increasing lags. This paper characterizes its decay. First, Monte Carlo simulations are used to select the best volatility and correlation estimators for this task. Second, the empirical lagged correlations are studied over a set of 225 time series, as well as for the DJIA with a sample size of one century. The results favor strongly a log-decay shape, while an exponential and power law decay do not describe well the data. The implications for the modelization of financial time series by processes are important, as this finding excludes the hyperbolic decay, but favors volatility cascade and multicomponent ARCH processes. Third, the analysis of the decay coefficient shows that time series related to emerging countries have a shorter memory, in agreement with an analysis of the Hurst exponents published recently.

Keywords: heteroskedasticity, volatility lagged correlation

Suggested Citation:

Zumbach, Gilles, Characterizing Heteroskedasticity (April 14, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
[ References , Arneodo
Causal cascade in the stock market from the "infrared" to the "ultraviolet
Eur. Phys. J. B , issue 2 Posted: 1998
[ Bacry
Multifractal random walk
Phys. Rev. E , issue 64 Posted: 2001
Crossref
[ Baillie
Fractionally integrated generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity
Journal of Econometrics , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
T Bollerslev
Generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity
Journal of Econometrics , volume 31 , p. 307 - 327 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Gilles Zumbach , Luis Fernandez , Caroline Weber
Realistic Processes for Stocks from One Day to One Year
20 Pages · Posted: 27 Dec 2010 · Downloads: 210
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,485
RANK
375,436
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Volatility Processes and Volatility Forecast with Long Memory

By Gilles O. Zumbach

Modelling Short-Term Volatility with GARCH and Harch Models

By Michel M. Dacorogna, Ulrich A. Müller, ...

Heterogeneous Volatility Cascade in Financial Markets

By Gilles O. Zumbach and Paul Lynch

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies