Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Endowment Differences and the Composition of Intra-Industry Trade

University of Nottingham, GEP Research Paper 2008/36

31 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2009

Rod Falvey

Bond University - Department of Economics

Chris Milner

University of Nottingham - School of Economics

Manuel Heredia Cabral

University of Minho

Date Written: November 15, 2008

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between differences in endowments and different types of trade, in particular vertical intra-industry trade (VIIT). We build a general equilibrium framework based on a hybrid of the Chamberlain-Heckscher-Ohlin and the specific factors models that generates predictions about how the shares of different types of intra-industry and net trade flows change with differences in endowments. We also present some empirical evidence for European Union trade with its 51 major trading partners. The econometric models of the determinants of the different types of trade confirm the theoretical predictions, namely that the effect of cross country differences in the endowments of trading partners on the share of vertical IIT in total bilateral trade differs from their effect on both horizontal IIT and net trade. The share of horizontal IIT (net trade) decreases (increases) for all increases in absolute endowment differences, but the share of vertical IIT can both increase and decrease with increases in endowment differences.

Keywords: Intra-industry trade, factor endowments

JEL Classification: F11, F14

Suggested Citation:

Falvey, Rod and Milner, Chris and Cabral, Manuel Heredia, Endowment Differences and the Composition of Intra-Industry Trade (November 15, 2008). University of Nottingham, GEP Research Paper 2008/36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
K Abn-El-Rahman
Firms' Competitive Advantages as Joint Determinants of Trade Composition
Review of World Economics , volume 127 , p. 83 - 97 Posted: 1991
Crossref
V Blanes , C Martin
The Nature and Causes of Intra-Industry Trade: Back to the Comparative Advantage Explanation? The Case of Spain
Review of World Economics , volume 136 , p. 423 - 464 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Cabral , R Falvey , C Milner
The Skill Content of Inter-and Intra-Industry Trade: Evidence for the UK
Review of World Economics , volume 142 , p. 546 - 66 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Nuno Crespo , Maria Fontoura , Paula
Determinants of the Pattern of Horizontal and Vertical Intra-Industry Trade: What Can We Learn From Portuguese Data?', Mimeo Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,962
RANK
631,426
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Trade eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Intra-Industry Trade of Transition Countries: Trends And Determinants

By Yener Kandogan

Intra-Industry Trade of Transition Countries: Trends and Determinants

By Yener Kandogan

The Changing Trade and Revealed Comparative Advantages of Asian and Latin American Manufacture Exports

By Siegfried Bender and Kui-wai Li

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies