Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting (and Connecting) Marglin-Bhaduri and Minsky: An SFC Look at Financialization and Profit-Led Growth

Levy Economics Institute Working Paper Series

36 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2009 Last revised: 11 Jul 2009

Claudio H. Dos Santos

The Levy Economics Institute

Antônio Carlos Macedo e Silva

Universidade Estadual de Campinas (UNICAMP) - Instituto de Economia

Date Written: June 16, 2009

Abstract

Many heterodox strands of thought share both a concern with the study of different phases or growth regimes in the history of capitalism and the use of formal short-run models as an analytical tool. This text suggests that: (1) this strategy is potentially misleading; (2) that the stock-flow consistent (SFC) approach, while providing a general framework that may facilitate the dialogue among those currents, is particularly well suited to all those who think that macroeconomic models may illuminate historical quests; and (3) this approach’s main intuitions may be conveyed through the 'benchmark' Post Keynesian SFC model presented by Dos Santos and Zezza (2008), dispensing with the complex computer simulations that are normally employed by SFC authors.

Keywords: stock-flow consistency, long-run analyses, post Keynesian macroeconomics, Neo-Kaleckian macroeconomics, régulation school, financialization

JEL Classification: B50, E12

Suggested Citation:

Dos Santos, Claudio H. and Macedo e Silva, Antônio Carlos, Revisiting (and Connecting) Marglin-Bhaduri and Minsky: An SFC Look at Financialization and Profit-Led Growth (June 16, 2009). Levy Economics Institute Working Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420769 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
M Aglietta
Macroéconomie Financière. Paris: Collection Repères, La Découverte
Economy and Society , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 146 - 159 Posted: 1995
A Bhaduri , S Marglin
Unemployment and the real wage: the economic basis for contesting political ideologies
Cambridge Journal of Economics , volume 14 , p. 375 - 393 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Blecker
Distribution, demand and growth in neo-Kaleckian models Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Boyer
Is a finance-led growth regime a viable alternative to Fordism? A preliminary analysis
Economy and Society , volume 29 , p. 111 - 145 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
RANK
286,433
5 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies