Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Environmental Accounting Information Influence Attention and Investment?

44 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2009 Last revised: 5 Sep 2010

Hank C. Alewine

University of Alabama in Huntsville - College of Business Administration

Dan N. Stone

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 7, 2009

Abstract

Purpose: Environmental consequences increasingly influence management strategy and choice. This study investigates the effects on attention and investment of: (a) incorporating environmental data into a balanced scorecard (BSC), called the sustainability balanced score card (SBSC), and, (b) the organization of environmental accounting information.

Design/method/approach: In a between-participant design, participants (n ≈ 95) chose from among two investments using BSCs. Participants were randomly assigned to one of three conditions: (a) no environmental data (control or BSC condition), (b) environmental data embedded within the traditional BSC (four-perspective SBSC) or (c) environmental data added to a BSC as a standalone fifth perspective (five-perspective SBSC).

Findings: Environmentally friendly investment was greater with the four-perspective SBSC than the traditional BSC. In addition, participants were most efficient, i.e., spent the least total time, and least time per data element examined, with the four-perspective SBSC. Finally, the time spent examining, and decision weight given to, environmental data were uncorrelated.

Research limitations/implications: Professional managers and accountants may have greater knowledge of environmental metrics than do students, who are the participants in this study; greater knowledge of environmental metrics may lessen the extent of display effects on judgments; hence, the results may not generalize to knowledgeable professionals. Future research can test this speculation by exploring the influence of knowledge on judgments in this context.

Practical implications: The form (i.e., organization) of environmental accounting data changed the allocation of attention while the presence of environmental accounting data changed participants’ investments; hence, both the presence, and form, of environmental accounting information matters.

Originality/value: This study is among the first to show differing influences from both the presence and organization of environmental accounting data on attention and investment.

Category: Research paper.

Keywords: Sustainability Balanced Scorecard, Environmental Accounting, Ecological Accounting, Investment Decision Making, Decision Making Strategies, Data Quality

JEL Classification: M46

Suggested Citation:

Alewine, Hank C. and Stone, Dan N., How Does Environmental Accounting Information Influence Attention and Investment? (December 7, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A Baddeley
The magical number seven: still magic after all these years? Psychological Review , p. 353 - 356 Posted: 1994-04
Crossref
R D Banker , H Chang , M J Pizzini
The Balanced Scorecard: Judgmental Effects of Performance Measures Linked to Strategy
Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Bassen , D Blasel , U Faisst , M Hagenmuller
Performance measurement of corporate venture capital -balanced scorecard in theory and practice
International Journal of Technology Management , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 420 - 437 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L Bible , S Kerr , M Zanini
The Balanced Scorecard: Here and Back
Management Accounting Quarterly , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 18 - 23 Posted: 2006
Load more
2 Citations
Brian Ballou , Ryan J. Casey , Jonathan H. Grenier , Dan L. Heitger
Exploring the Strategic Integration of Sustainability Initiatives: Opportunities for Accounting Research
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 265 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Irma M. Nawangwulan , Samuel P. D. Anantadjaya , B. Agus Finardi
Does BSC Represent an Organizational Development? Evidence from Indonesian Manufacturing Firms
RIBER: Review of Integrative Business & Economics Research, Vol. 3, Issue 1, March 2014, p. 150-171, ISSN # 2304-1013 · 22 Pages · Posted: 17 Feb 2014 · Last revised: 13 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 188
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,405
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,077
RANK
31,950
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies