Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combined Algorithm for Detection of Manipulation in Financial Statements

27 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2009 Last revised: 10 Jul 2009

Igor Pustylnick

Far Eastern Federal University; Conestoga College

Date Written: June 19, 2009

Abstract

This paper identifies several approaches to detection of manipulation in financial statements and creates a combined practical approach, which uses each of the existing algorithms in the complement manner to the others. It also introduces new P-Score formula, which in conjunction with Altman Z-score formula creates new approach to detection of fraud in financial statements of the public companies. It uses data from multiple yearly statements of the company in the sample to monitor manipulation signs. The analysis, conducted on the sample of companies, which were charged with fraud, shows that new P-Score/Z-Score approach gives 82.76% chance of detecting fraud and combined approach gives 96.55% chance of detecting fraud in financial statements, which is a significant improvement over other models. The paper also introduces a finite set of variables, which can be found in the financial statements of the public companies in easy and transparent manner. The ultimate goal of the study is to create a basis for using XBRL based data to detect financial statement fraud automatically.

Keywords: fraud detection, fraud, manipulation, SAS 99, Beneish, Altman, Z-Score, XBRL

JEL Classification: M41, M49, M43, G34

Suggested Citation:

Pustylnick, Igor, Combined Algorithm for Detection of Manipulation in Financial Statements (June 19, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1422693 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1422693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Shafiqul Alam , Sumon Kumar Das , Umma Rumman Dipa , Syed Zabid Hossain
Predicting financial distress through ownership pattern: dynamics of financial resilience of Bangladesh
Future Business Journal , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Igor Pustylnick
Use of Z-Score in Detection of Revenue Manipulations
21st International Conference on Economics and Management. Brno, Czech Republic (2016) · 8 Pages · Posted: 14 Mar 2015 · Last revised: 16 Jul 2017 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Asafo Adjei Anning , Michael Adusei
An Analysis of Financial Statement Manipulation among Listed Manufacturing and Trading Firms in Ghana
Journal of African Business , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 165 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Igor Pustylnick
The Mechanism of Retrieval of Data from XBRL, Its Uses and Potential Enhancements
17 Pages · Posted: 26 Jul 2013 · Downloads: 230
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,899
RANK
33,461
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices

By Scott A. Richardson, Richard G. Sloan, ...

Accrued Earnings and Growth: Implications for Earnings Persistence and Market Mispricing

By Patricia M. Fairfield, Scott Whisenant, ...

Insider Trading, Earnings Quality, and Accrual Mispricing

By Mark E. Vargus and Messod D. Beneish

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies