Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Optimal Choice of Pre-Launch Reviewer

Journal of Economic Theory, Forthcoming

16 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2009 Last revised: 24 Apr 2015

David Gill

Purdue University, Department of Economics

Daniel Sgroi

University of Warwick - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 16, 2011

Abstract

We develop a framework in which: (i) a firm can have a new product tested publicly before launch; and (ii) tests vary in toughness, holding expertise fixed. Price flexibility boosts the strong positive impact on consumer beliefs of passing a tough test and mitigates the strong negative impact of failing a soft test. As a result, profits are convex in toughness: the firm selects either the toughest or softest test available. The toughest test is optimal when consumers start with an unfavorable prior and receive sufficiently uninformative private signals (an "innovative" product); the softest test is optimal when signals are sufficiently informative.

Keywords: tests, public test, test toughness, test decision, product launch, endorsements, reviewers, certification, Bayesian learning, information transmission, information, bias, marketing, monopoly, pricing

JEL Classification: D82, D83, L15

Suggested Citation:

Gill, David and Sgroi, Daniel, The Optimal Choice of Pre-Launch Reviewer (December 16, 2011). Journal of Economic Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1422641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1422641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D Bergemann , M Pesendorfer
Information structures in optimal auctions
J. Econ. Theory , volume 137 , p. 580 - 609 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D Blackwell
Comparison of experiments
Proceedings of the Second Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Probability , p. 93 - 102 Posted: 1951
S Bose , G Orosel , M Ottaviani , L Vesterlund
Dynamic monopoly pricing and herding
RAND J. Econ , volume 37 , p. 910 - 928 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Bose , G Orosel , M Ottaviani , L Vesterlund
Monopoly pricing in the binary herding model
Econ. Theory , volume 37 , p. 203 - 241 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,293
RANK
588,270
10 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Intellectual Property Rights and Standard-Setting Organizations

By Mark A. Lemley

Patent Holdup and Royalty Stacking

By Mark A. Lemley and Carl Shapiro

Reply: Patent Holdup and Royalty Stacking

By Mark A. Lemley and Carl Shapiro

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies