Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Crises and Bank Failures: A Review of Prediction Methods

FRB of Cleveland Working Paper No. 09-04R

34 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2009 Last revised: 1 Nov 2010

Yuliya Demyanyk

University of Illinois at Chicago

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 4, 2009

Abstract

In this article we provide a summary of empirical results obtained in several economics and operations research papers that attempt to explain, predict, or suggest remedies for financial crises or banking defaults; we also outline the methodologies used in them. We analyze financial and economic circumstances associated with the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis and the global financial turmoil that has led to severe crises in many countries. The intent of this article is to promote future empirical research for preventing bank failures and financial crises.

Keywords: subprime, financial crisis, mortgage, bank failure, operations research

JEL Classification: G01, G15, G21, C44, C45

Suggested Citation:

Demyanyk, Yuliya and Hasan, Iftekhar, Financial Crises and Bank Failures: A Review of Prediction Methods (September 4, 2009). FRB of Cleveland Working Paper No. 09-04R, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1422708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
W H Chen , J Y Shih
A study of Taiwan's issuer credit rating systems using support vector machines
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 30 , p. 427 - 435 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M A Boyacioglu , Y Kara , O K Baykan
Predicting bank financial failures using neural networks, support vector machines and multivariate statistical methods: A comparative analysis in the sample of savings deposit insurance fund (SDIF) transferred banks in Turkey
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 36 , issue 2 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Demirguc-Kunt , E Detragiache
Cross-country empirical studies of systemic bank distress: A survey Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Bell , D Pain
Leading indicator models of banking crises-a critical review
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,643
RANK
16,530
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Déjà Vu All Over Again: The Causes of U.S. Commercial Bank Failures This Time Around

By Rebel A. Cole and Lawrence J. White

Financial Crises and Bank Failures: A Review of Prediction Methods

By Yuliya Demyanyk and Iftekhar Hasan

Ability of Accounting and Audit Quality Variables to Predict Bank Failure During the Financial Crisis

By Justin Yiqiang Jin, Kiridaran (giri) Kanagaretnam, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies