Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Audits to Manage Earnings: The Impact of Diversions on an Auditor's Detection of Earnings Management

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 Jun 2009 Last revised: 15 Aug 2014

Benjamin L. Luippold

Babson College

Thomas Kida

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

M. David Piercey

University of Massachusetts Amherst

James F. Smith

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: August 11, 2014

Abstract

This study examines an aspect of earnings management that we refer to as audit management. We define audit management as a client’s strategic use of diversions to decrease the likelihood that auditors will discover earnings management during the audit. Specifically, we examine whether diverting auditors’ attention to either clean financial statement accounts or accounts that contain other errors affect an auditor’s ability to uncover earnings management. Auditors performed analytical review, searching financial statements for unusual fluctuations suggestive of errors. Following prior studies, we seeded an intentional accounting error which created an unusual fluctuation that allowed the client to meet an earnings target. We manipulated whether management provided a diversionary statement that explicitly identified risk in other areas of the audit, and whether those areas were clean or contained other detected errors that had no impact on earnings. We find that auditors’ earnings management detection is worst when they are diverted to clean accounts and best when auditors are diverted to accounts that contain other errors. Our results suggest that managers can potentially exploit an audit management tactic as simple as a diversion to a clean area to reduce auditors’ effectiveness at detecting earnings management. The implications of these findings for audit and decision making research are discussed.

Keywords: Audit Management, Earnings Management, Diversion, Distraction

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Luippold, Benjamin L. and Kida, Thomas and Piercey, M. David and Smith, James F., Managing Audits to Manage Earnings: The Impact of Diversions on an Auditor's Detection of Earnings Management (August 11, 2014). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1424004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1424004
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,068
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies