Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gambling with the House Money and Trying to Break Even: The Effects of Prior Outcomes on Risky Choice

Management Science, Vol. 36, No. 6, pp. 643-660, 1990

Posted: 29 Jun 2009

Richard H. Thaler

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Eric J. Johnson

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Marketing

Date Written: 1990

Abstract

How is risk-taking affected by prior gains and losses? While normative theory implores decision makers to only consider incremental outcomes, real decision makers are influenced by prior outcomes. We first consider how prior outcomes are combined with the potential payoffs offered by current choices. We propose an editing rule to describe how decision makers frame such problems. We also present data from real money experiments supporting a "house money effect" (increased risk seeking in the presence of a prior gain) and "break-even effects" (in the presence of prior losses, outcomes which offer a chance to break even are especially attractive).

Keywords: decision making, prospect theory, sunk costs, mental accounting

Suggested Citation:

Thaler, Richard H. and Johnson, Eric J., Gambling with the House Money and Trying to Break Even: The Effects of Prior Outcomes on Risky Choice (1990). Management Science, Vol. 36, No. 6, pp. 643-660, 1990, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1424076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,068
RANK
14,401
121 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Equity Premium Puzzle: A Review

By Rajnish Mehra

By Force of Habit: A Consumption-Based Explanation of Aggregate Stock Market Behavior

By John Y. Campbell and John H. Cochrane

By Force of Habit: A Consumption-Based Explanation of Plantation of Aggregate Stock Market Behavior

By John Y. Campbell and John H. Cochrane

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies