Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Financial Innovation and Monetary Substitution with an Application to a Century of Data on the M1-Income Ratio

40 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2009

Drew Saunders

Purdue University - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 1, 2009

Abstract

I study a DSGE model incorporating a monetary transactions technology in which a representative household invests time to improve its skill (human capital) in making transactions. The model is designed to reconcile salient short- and long-run features of the relationship between money, income, and the opportunity cost of holding money. An econometric reduced form, derived analytically, is revealing for the nature of pathologies perceived by the empirical money demand literature; particularly interesting is the possibility of a moving average root close to the unit circle. The impact elasticity of the M1-income ratio to an innovation to the opportunity cost is about -0.1, whereas the long-run response to a unit permanent shift is -1. In comparison to less parsimonious models, parametric restrictions are not rejected, and out-of-sample forecasts are improved. The theory also yields implications for the welfare cost of inflation vastly different from those of standard shopping time models.

Keywords: money demand, elasticity, financial innovation

JEL Classification: E41

Suggested Citation:

Saunders, Drew, A Theory of Financial Innovation and Monetary Substitution with an Application to a Century of Data on the M1-Income Ratio (March 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1424462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1424462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
∆ S
Posted: 2000
∆ X
Posted: 2000
Thomas F Cooley , Gary D Hansen
The In ‡ation Tax in a Real Business Cycle Model , volume 79 , p. 733 - 748 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Thomas F Cooley , Gary D Hansen
The Welfare Cost of Moderate In ‡ations
Journal of Money Credit and Banking , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 483 - 503 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,183
RANK
580,030
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Case for Price Stability

By Marvin Goodfriend and Robert G. King

Optimal Fiscal and Monetary Policy

By Varadarajan V. Chari and Patrick J. Kehoe

Optimal Fiscal and Monetary Policy

By Varadarajan V. Chari and Patrick J. Kehoe

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies