Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Company Valuation - Value, Structure, Risk

125 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2009 Last revised: 30 Jun 2009

Marek Capinski

AGH University of Science and Technology

Wiktor Patena

Higher Colleges of Technology

Date Written: June 25, 2009

Abstract

DCF (discounted cash flows) valuation has had a long tradition that dates back to early works of Miller, Modigliani, Gordon and Shapiro. The DCF method clearly dominates in most of the valuations of economically sound companies. Besides, other methods are quite straightforward, and do not require sophisticated theories or mathematical models to support. DCF does. The concepts of perfect market, time value of money, cost of capital, portfolio theory and many others laid the foundation for DCF valuation. There are certain standards that apply when DCF is used, some are the part of the common knowledge and are clearly codified, and others have to be presented in detail. This book is focused on the DCF method, the one that is most complicated - hence needs special explanations, the one that is most sophisticated - hence needs attention. Another reason is that the DCF method captures best the value of profitable, economically sound companies. We believe it works for all firms which have real expertise - this is the core of the economy, its salt of the earth. The main purpose of this book is to explain the inner workings of the DCF method, especially the variant in which capital structure constantly affects cost of equity, as it does in reality.

Keywords: company valuation, capital structure, iteration

JEL Classification: G12, G31, M21

Suggested Citation:

Capinski, Marek and Patena, Wiktor, Company Valuation - Value, Structure, Risk (June 25, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1425509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1425509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
The problem is however that we are locked into the 1.5527 exchange rate. If the spot rate is more favorable
Seemingly, the income statement now looks good (the gain is 471 818)
Suppose European call options with the following characteristics are available: strike =1.6, call premium = 0.066902, and a maturity of 1 year. Then the cost of buying options is 334 510 dollars (209 069 pounds), plus the interest (16%) paid on the money that is borrowed, which is 53 522 dollars (33 451 pounds). The options will be exercised if the spot at the end of the year is higher than 1.6. Let us see what happens if the most pessimistic scenario occurs, and the 1.964979 spot rate materializes. The income statement looks much better
Let us try to reduce the cost by hedging only a fraction (50%) of the exposure. Assuming the same Literature Benninga S., O. Sarig, Corporate Finance: A valuation Approach Posted: 1996
R A Brealey , S C Meyers
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2003
Load more
2 Citations
Habtamu Asres
Valuation of State-Owned Enterprises in the Process of Privatisation in Ethiopia: Procedures and Methods
European Business & Management , volume 10 , issue 6 , p. 104 Posted: 2024
Crossref
António Gomes , Maria João Jorge , Ana Gonçalves Pereira
The use of different cost of equity models when valuing SMEs: A case study
Small Business International Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. e705 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,470
RANK
43,338
2 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Correct Value of Tax Shields. An Analysis of 23 Theories

By Pablo Fernandez

The Correct Value of Tax Shields

By Pablo Fernandez

The Value of Tax Shields is the Difference of Two Present Values with Different Risk

By Pablo Fernandez

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies