Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Maximum Entropy Principle and Power-Law Tailed Distributions

12 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2009 Last revised: 6 Jul 2009

Giorgio Kaniadakis

Polytecnico di Torino

Date Written: June 30, 2009

Abstract

In ordinary statistical mechanics the Boltzmann-Shannon entropy is related to the Maxwell-Bolzmann distribution $p_i$ by means of a twofold link. The first link is differential and is offered by the Jaynes Maximum Entropy Principle. Indeed, the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution is obtained by maximizing the Boltzmann-Shannon entropy under proper constraints. The second link is algebraic and imposes that both the entropy and the distribution must be expressed in terms of the same function in direct and inverse form. Indeed, the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution $p_i$ is expressed in terms of the exponential function, while the Boltzmann-Shannon entropy is defined as the mean value of $-\ln(p_i)$.

In generalized statistical mechanics the second link is customarily relaxed. Of course, the generalized exponential function defining the probability distribution function after inversion, produces a generalized logarithm $\Lambda(p_i)$. But, in general, the mean value of $-\Lambda(p_i)$ is not the entropy of the system. Here we reconsider the question first posed in [Phys. Rev. E {\bf 66}, 056125 (2002) and {\bf 72}, 036108 (2005)], if and how is it possible to select generalized statistical theories in which the above mentioned twofold link between entropy and the distribution function continues to hold, such as in the case of ordinary statistical mechanics.

Within this scenario, apart from the standard logarithmic-exponential functions that define ordinary statistical mechanics, there emerge other new couples of direct-inverse functions, i.e. generalized logarithms $\Lambda(x)$ and generalized exponentials $\Lambda^{-1}(x)$, defining coherent and self-consistent generalized statistical theories. Interestingly, all these theories preserve the main features of ordinary statistical mechanics, and predict distribution functions presenting power-law tails. Furthermore, the obtained generalized entropies are both thermodynamically and Lesche stable.

Keywords: Power-law tailed distributions, Maximum entropy principle

Suggested Citation:

Kaniadakis, Giorgio, Maximum Entropy Principle and Power-Law Tailed Distributions (June 30, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1427876 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1427876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
A M Mathai
A Handbook of generalized Special Functions for Statistical and Physical Sciences Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Hasegawa , A M Kunioki , M Duong-Van
Plasma Distribution Function in a Superthermal Radiation Field
Phys. Rev. Lett , volume 54 Posted: 1985
Crossref
V M Vasyliunas
A survey of low-energy electrons in the evening sector of the magnetosphere with OGO1 and OGO3
J. Geophys. Res , volume 73 Posted: 1968
Crossref
P L Biermann , G Sigl
Physics and Astrophysics of Ultra-Hight-Energy Cosmic Rays , volume 576 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Pei-long Shen , Wen-ting Jia
Maximum-entropy-based operational risk loss distribution estimation of commercial banks
, p. 1398 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,785
RANK
264,473
1 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

A Model of Personal Income Distribution with Application to Italian Data

By Fabio Clementi, Mauro Gallegati, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies