Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pricing and Hedging of Asian Options: Quasi-Explicit Solutions via Malliavin Calculus

Mathematical Methods of Operations Research, Volume 74, Number 1, pp. 93-120, 2011

39 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2009 Last revised: 16 Sep 2013

Zhaojun Yang

Southern University of Science and Technology - Department of Finance

Christian Oliver Ewald

University of Glasgow; Høgskole i Innlandet; Umeå University - Department of Mathematics and Mathematical Statistics

Olaf Menkens

Dublin City University - School of Mathematical Sciences

Date Written: March 14, 2011

Abstract

We use Malliavin calculus and the Clark-Ocone formula to derive the hedging strategy of an arithmetic Asian Call option in general terms. Furthermore we derive an expression for the density of the integral over time of a geometric Brownian motion, which allows us to express hedging strategy and price of the Asian option as an analytic, that is closed form, expression. Numerical computations which are based on this expression are provided.

Keywords: Asian options, option pricing, hedging, Malliavin calculus

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G13, C40, C61, C63

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Zhaojun and Ewald, Christian Oliver and Menkens, Olaf, Pricing and Hedging of Asian Options: Quasi-Explicit Solutions via Malliavin Calculus (March 14, 2011). Mathematical Methods of Operations Research, Volume 74, Number 1, pp. 93-120, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1427591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1427591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
He also wishes to express his thanks to Peter Carr and Marc Yor for useful discussions on the topic of Asian options
Eugene O Downes , Jason &apos;riordan
Quinn for helpful discussions and suggestions on solving partial differential equations numerically. Support from the Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) via the Edgeworth Centre is gratefully acknowledged. All authors acknowledge useful suggestions and comments from two anonymous referees
Hansjörg Albrecher , Jan Dhane , Marc Goovaerts , Wim Schoutens
Static hedging of Asian options under Levy models
The Journal of Derivatives , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 63 - 73 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Phelim Boyle , Alexander Potapchik
Prices and sensitivities of Asian options: A survey
Insurance: Mathematics and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 189 - 211 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,739
RANK
164,752
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

New Measures for Performance Evaluation

By Alexander S. Cherny and Dilip B. Madan

Options on Realized Variance and Convex Orders

By Peter Carr, Hélyette Geman, ...

Sato Processes and the Valuation of Structured Products

By Dilip B. Madan and Ernst Eberlein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies