Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modelling the Accruals Process and Assessing Unexpected Accruals

55 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2009 Last revised: 4 Feb 2010

Cheng Y. Lai

University of New South Wales - Australian School of Business

Date Written: March 27, 2009

Abstract

This paper formalises the accruals process to model both normal and abnormal accruals under clean surplus accounting. Based on theoretically derived abnormal accruals, I assess the ability of unexpected accruals extracted from the empirical Jones-type models in detecting earnings management. These models include the original Jones (1991) model, the modified Jones model developed in Dechow et al. (1995), and the model in Ball and Shivakumar (2006) that incorporates conditional conservatism. My analysis reveals that unexpected accruals from these models generally do not fully reflect abnormal accruals. I show that a plausible explanation for this could be that abnormal and normal accruals are inherently correlated and they cannot be completely disentangled from each other.

Keywords: Accruals, Accruals process, Abnormal accruals, Normal accruals, Expected accruals, Unexpected accruals, Earnings management, Accruals management, Conservatism, Aggression, Accounting distortions

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Cheng Y., Modelling the Accruals Process and Assessing Unexpected Accruals (March 27, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1428171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1428171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
C Lai
The impact of accounting distortions on measures of performance, growth, and valuation Posted: 2009
M F Mcnichols
Research design issues in earnings management studies
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 19 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Mcvay
Earnings management using classification shifting
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 501 - 531 Posted: 2006
S Penman
Financial statement analysis and security analysis, 4 th edn Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Cheng Y. Lai
The Impact of Accounting Distortions on Performance and Growth Measures
49 Pages · Posted: 10 Apr 2011 · Last revised: 10 Apr 2011 · Downloads: 852
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,583
RANK
279,521
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies