Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Disclosure on the Pay-Performance Relation

45 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2009 Last revised: 1 Nov 2012

Gus De Franco

Purdue University

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Stephannie Larocque

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 31, 2011

Abstract

We examine whether greater transparency leads to improved evaluation and rewarding of management. We posit that disclosure improves board effectiveness at monitoring executives and in strengthening the link between pay and performance. We use management guidance as our empirical proxy for disclosure and document the following. We predict and find higher sensitivity of CEO compensation to performance (both accounting and stock returns) for firms that issue management guidance than for firms that do not. Our results are robust to multiple tests that address the potential endogeneity of management’s decision to issue guidance (using a Heckman self-selection model, employing a matched-sample approach, and identifying a subsample of firms in which increased disclosure is likely to be exogenous), tests that control for alternative explanations, and tests that use conference calls as an alternative disclosure metric.

Keywords: Disclosure, monitoring, pay-performance, agency costs, management guidance, research design

JEL Classification: J33, M41, M52, G29, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

De Franco, Gus and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Larocque, Stephannie A., The Effect of Disclosure on the Pay-Performance Relation (October 31, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1428826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1428826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
J M Hassell , R H Jennings
Relative forecast accuracy and the timing of earnings forecast announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 75 Posted: 1986
J M Hassell , R H Jennings , D J Lasser
Management earnings forecasts: Their usefulness as a source of firm-specific information to security analysts
Journal of Financial Research , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 303 - 319 Posted: 1988
Crossref
R Hayes , S Schaefer
Implicit Contracts and the Explanatory Power of Top Executive Compensation for Future Performance
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 273 - 293 Posted: 2000
Crossref
P Healy , A Hutton , K Palepu
Stock performance and intermediation changes surrounding sustained increases in disclosure
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 485 - 520 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
837
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,979
RANK
41,137
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies