Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rational Greeks

The IUP Journal of Financial Risk Management, 2016

24 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2009 Last revised: 13 Mar 2017

Winfried G. Hallerbach

Fintelligence CCT; EDHEC Business School - Department of Economics & Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 5, 2016

Abstract

Risk analyses often require the revaluation of complex financial instruments over a large set of risk factor scenarios. In many instances, full revaluation is numerically intensive and hence too costly. In that case one can resort to partial revaluations using Greeks: partial derivatives of the instrument with respect to the underlying value drivers. Taylor series approximations to pricing functions are only valid for relatively small changes in the risk factors and show large approximation errors in the tails of the distribution. In this paper, we show how partial revaluation can be improved by using (modified) Padé rational approximants. Firstly, we show how rational approximation enhances the estimation of effective Greeks from perturbated risk factors. Secondly, we show that rational approximants outperform conventional Taylor approximants in approximating pricing functions. “Rational Greeks” signify a substantial improvement in approximation accuracy, even for substantial changes in risk factors.

Keywords: approximation methods, Padé rational approximants, risk analysis, derivatives, Greeks

JEL Classification: C13, C15, C63

Suggested Citation:

Hallerbach, Winfried George, Rational Greeks (August 5, 2016). The IUP Journal of Financial Risk Management, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1429765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1429765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
E Benhamou
Smart Monte Carlo: Various Tricks Using Malliavin Calculus
Quantitative Finance , volume 2 , p. 329 - 336 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E Benhamou
Optimal Malliavin Weighting Function for the Computation of the Greeks
Mathematical Finance , volume 13 , p. 37 - 53 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Berkowitz
Forecasting Option Values with Unobservable Volatility and False Models Posted: 2003
G O Bierwag , Ballinger , M A Cambridge , F &amp; M Black , Scholes
The Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities
Duration Analysis , volume 81 , p. 637 - 659 Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,729
RANK
386,825
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies