Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management? Erroneous Inferences Based on Earnings Frequency Distributions

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2009

Cindy Durtschi

DePaul University - School of Accountancy and MIS

Peter D. Easton

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 7, 2009

Abstract

A vast literature following Hayn [1995] and Burgstahler and Dichev [1997] attributed the so-called 'discontinuities' in earnings distributions around zero to earnings management. Despite recent evidence that these discontinuities are likely caused by other factors, researchers and teachers continue to point to the shapes of these distributions as evidence of earnings management. We provide three sets of further evidence that these discontinuities are likely caused by factors other than earnings management: (1) we provide, as an example, a detailed analysis of the severe effects of sample selection in a recent study; this study erroneously concludes that the shape of an earnings distribution is evidence of earnings management, (2) we provide a simple explanation for the shape of the earnings distribution that is most often cited as evidence of earnings management; the relation between earnings and prices differs with the magnitude and the sign of earnings, and (3) we provide further examples that support the main point of our paper; evidence beyond the mere shape of a distribution must be brought to bear before researchers can draw conclusions regarding the presence/absence of earnings management.

Keywords: earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Durtschi, Cindy and Easton, Peter D., Earnings Management? Erroneous Inferences Based on Earnings Frequency Distributions (July 7, 2009). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1430925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Accounting Principles Board opinion number 28
Interim Financial Reporting Posted: 1973
W Baber , S Kang
The Impact of Split-adjusting and Rounding on Analysts' Forecast Error Calculations
Accounting Horizons , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 277 - 289 Posted: 2002-12
Crossref
A Bathke , K Lorek
The Relationship between Time-Series Models and the Security Market's Expectation of Quarterly Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 59 , p. 163 - 176 Posted: 1984-04
A ; B Beatty , ; Ke , K Petroni
Earnings Management to Avoid Earnings Declines Across Publicly and Privately Held Banks
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 547 - 570 Posted: 2002-07
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,579
RANK
147,479
15 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies