Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender is Not 'A Dummy Variable': A Discussion of Current Gender Research in Accounting

Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management (doi: 10.1108/QRAM-08-2017-0083)

22 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2009 Last revised: 10 Jun 2020

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Rihab Khalifa

Independent

Date Written: January 7, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to reflect on the corpus of gender research in accounting journals, with the overall aim of evaluating the extent to which it has contributed to our understanding of the organization of accounting, and its social and organizational functions. A critical analysis was undertaken of a selection of gender articles. The selection included all gender papers published between the years 2004–2014, in 58 journals ranked A*, A, and B from the Australian Business Deans Council (ABDC) journal ranking list. Patterns within the publishing norms of those journals were identified and critically reflected upon. We grouped gender research into three categories, namely: gender as a dummy (or control) variable, gender as giving voice, and gender as a process and organizing principle. Of these three categories, we contend that using gender as a dummy variable is very common, and proved to be least fruitful in explicating the roles of gender in accounting. Moreover, many published papers confuse sex with gender. Research limitations/implications: This paper discussed future avenues and approaches for research gender in accounting without, however, expanding on recent changes in gender research. This paper is the first to systematically review gender research in the accounting field over the last three decades. Its key insight is to identify two persistent pitfalls within current gender research practice, namely, the use of gender as a control variable only and the confusion of sex with gender. These pitfalls diminish the value of gender research overall and render it less relevant to the broader accounting literature. By using the term gender either as an add-on or, mistakenly, as a biological rather than cultural marker the totality of those articles helps marginalize gender as an accounting research area because they fail to bring about the reconceptualization of accounting as a discipline. This stands in marked contrast to the achievements of gender approaches in other disciplines, such as sociology, history, or, work and employment. Articles that frequently decry the status of gender in accounting research turn out to be also reinforcing the marginalization of gender in accounting.

Keywords: Auditor Gender, Sex, Gender, Gender Differences, Sex Differences, Audit Judgment

JEL Classification: M42, J16, B54

Suggested Citation:

Hardies, Kris and Khalifa, Rihab, Gender is Not 'A Dummy Variable': A Discussion of Current Gender Research in Accounting (January 7, 2018). Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management (doi: 10.1108/QRAM-08-2017-0083), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1433361 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1433361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Helping them to forget..': the organizational embedding of gender relations in public audit firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J J Arnett
The neglected 95%: Why American psychology needs to become less American
American Psychologist , volume 63 , issue 7 , p. 602 - 614 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S L Bem
The Lenses of Gender: Transforming the Debate on Sexual Inequality Posted: 1993-04
S E Bonner , J W Hesford , W A Van Der Stede , S M Young
The most influential journals in academic accounting
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 7 , p. 663 - 685 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
672
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,583
RANK
89,153
6 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Getting to the Bottom Line: An Exploration of Gender and Earnings Quality

By Linda M. Parsons and Gopal V. Krishnan

The New Managerialism and Diversity on Corporate Boards of Directors

By Lynne Dallas

Auditor’s Gender and Audit Fees

By Kim Ittonen and Emilia Vähämaa

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies