Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Representativity Variable Income Investments of the Two Biggest Brazilian Pension Funds Change in Decreased Short Term Interest Rate?

12 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2009

Iria

FUCAPE Business School

Antonio Nunes Pereira

University of Sao Paulo - Faculdade de Direito; Universidade Municipal de São Caetano do Sul (USCS); Fucape Business School

Date Written: July 19, 2009

Abstract

The paper aims to find the lineal relation among investments in variable income Banco do Brasil’s and Petrobras’ Pension Funds in decrease of interest rates. The supposition that bases the study was obtained from the Keynesian economic and of corporative finance literatures. The research can be characterized as exploratory and descriptive. The exploratory research to for being the initial step in the research process by the experience favors the formulation of significant hypotheses for posterior researches. The work also owns characteristics of study of case. The pension bottoms selection was intentional under volume of investments. The information availability was one of the factors that determined the choice. It can realize that Petros, during the analyzed period, increased significantly their in variable income investments, showing significant linear relation to 10% with just only 6 (six) observations. Soon, apparently, cannot accept that the in investments of Petros and Previ, in fall scenery of interest rates, kept unaffected regarding the representativity of the variable income. Theses findings stayed better characterized for Petros than Previ.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Bullerjahn, Iria and Pereira, Antonio Nunes, Did the Representativity Variable Income Investments of the Two Biggest Brazilian Pension Funds Change in Decreased Short Term Interest Rate? (July 19, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1436045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1436045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Assaf Neto , Alexandre
Finanças corporativas e valor. São Paulo: Atlas, 2003. BOULIER
Denis Dupré
Gestão financeira dos fundos de pensão Posted: 2003
Bolsa De , De , Paulo
Dicionário de Finanças. Disponível em < www.bovespa.com.br > Acesso em 20 set Posted: 2007
Constituição Brasil , Federal
São Paulo: Saraiva Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,174
RANK
833,930
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies