Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price Divergence from Fundamental Value and the Value Relevance of Accounting Information

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Jul 2009 Last revised: 14 Apr 2010

Simon Fung

Deakin University

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Xindong Kevin Zhu

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: April 13, 2010

Abstract

By employing two alternative measures of fundamental value, we re-examine the value relevance of accounting information over time. Consistent with some recent studies (e.g. Dontoh et al. 2007), we do not find evidence on the temporal decline in R-squares of conventional value-relevance regressions when the stock price is replaced by these measures as the dependent variable. Further, our results show that the divergence between fundamental value and the prevailing stock price: (1) increases over time and (2) is associated with measures of noise trading and other arbitrage risks and costs. Additional analyses also reveal that proxies measuring the extent of noise trading increase over time, consistent with Dontoh et al. (2004). Overall, we do not find evidence that there is a loss over time in the value relevance of accounting information with respect to fundamental value. More importantly, we show that measures of price divergence are associated with noise trading as well as other arbitrage costs and risks (such as transaction costs and information uncertainty) that prohibit market prices from converging to fundamental values.

Keywords: value relevance, market efficiency, R-squares, fundamental values

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Su, Lixin (Nancy) and Zhu, Xindong Kevin, Price Divergence from Fundamental Value and the Value Relevance of Accounting Information (April 13, 2010). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1436785
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies