Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Frictions versus Financing Frictions

36 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2009

Takao Kobayashi

University of Tokyo

Risa Sai

University of Tokyo

Date Written: July 20, 2009

Abstract

Bertola/Caballero (1994) and Abel/Eberly (1996) extended Jorgenson's classical model of firms' optimal investment. By introducing investment frictions, they were able to capture the role of future anticipations in investment decisions as well as the lumpy and intermittent nature of investment dynamics. We extend Jorgenson's model to the other direction of financing frictions. We construct a model of an equity-only firm, who must pay a linear financing cost for issuing new shares. We show that the firm's optimal investment-financing is a two-trigger policy in which the firm finances investment by issuing new shares (supplementing internal funds) when the shadow price of capital hits the upper trigger value. When the shadow price hits the lower trigger value, she sells a portion of her capital stock and buys back shares (or pays dividends). Values of the shadow price of capital between the two trigger values define a range of "inaction", in which the firm does neither issue nor buy back shares and invests all of her internal funds for expansion.

Keywords: investment frictions, financing frictions, irreversibility, costly reversibility, optimal investment-financing, dynamic programming

JEL Classification: C61, D21, E22, G31

Suggested Citation:

Kobayashi, Takao and Sai, Risa, Investment Frictions versus Financing Frictions (July 20, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1437365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1437365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Andrew B Abel
Optimal Investment under Uncertainty. American Economic Review , volume 73 , p. 228 - 261 Posted: 1983
Andrew B Abel , Janice C Eberly
A Uni…ed Model of Investment under Uncertainty
American Economic Review , volume 84 , p. 1369 - 1384 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Andrew B Abel , Janice C Eberly
Optimal Investment with Costly Reversibility. Review of Economic Studies , volume 63 , p. 581 - 593 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Guiseppe Bertola , Ricardo J Caballero
Irreversibility and Aggregate Investment
Review of Economic Studies , volume 61 , p. 223 - 246 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,137
RANK
584,078
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies