Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Balanced Scorecard – A System Dynamics Modelling Approach

Posted: 24 Jul 2009

Steen Nielsen

Department of Economics and Business Economics

Erland Hejn Nielsen

Aarhus School of Business

Date Written: July 21, 2009

Abstract

Purpose - This paper sets out to develop and illustrate a System Dynamics model based on the theory of the balanced scorecard and for future simulation scenarios. Design/methodology/approach - Based on a company we build a BSC model based on Vensim™ simulation software in order to construct a number of scenarios based on a System Dynamics Modelling approach. Our model includes five perspectives and a number of KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). These indicators are tied together through a number of different cause-and-effect relationships and time-lag assumptions. Based on performance measurement/management literature and business dynamics thinking, we provide evidence that companies tend to overlook the possible benefits of combining and integrating several accounting practices into a single BSC-framework using SDM. Findings - The main conclusion to be drawn on the basis of our simulation experiments is that both structural parameter settings as well as initial system state values in a coherent balanced scorecard model can have a significant impact on the dynamic path that the system embarks upon. Practical implications - Building similar analytical models can provide valuable insight for companies, for example the difficulties of agreeing on using a common language. Besides, building such a model will also give the company the possibility of testing its strategies, a process that should be conducted in a continuous manner. Originality/value - Including a time-lag dimension in system dynamics in combination with BSC may also solve many of the basic problems discussed in the BSC literature. The ‘monitor and learn’ effect of the strategy evaluation and the feedback process are important for the company to remain on track.

Keywords: performance management, balanced scorecard, time-delays, cause-and-effect, system dynamics, and simulation

Suggested Citation:

Nielsen, Steen and Nielsen, Erland Hejn, The Balanced Scorecard – A System Dynamics Modelling Approach (July 21, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1437001
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,710
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies