Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incomplete Financial Markets and Jumps in Asset Prices

University of Copenhagen Department of Economics Discussion Paper No. 09-12

18 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2009

Hervé Cres

HEC Paris

Tobias Markeprand

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mich Tvede

University of Copenhagen - Department of Economics

Date Written: July 23, 2009

Abstract

A dynamic pure-exchange general equilibrium model with uncertainty is studied. Fundamentals are supposed to depend continuously on states of nature. It is shown that: 1. if financial markets are complete, then asset prices vary continuously with states of nature, and; 2. if financial markets are incomplete, jumps in asset prices may be unavoidable. Consequently incomplete financial markets may increase volatility in asset prices significantly.

Keywords: general equilibrium, financial markets, jumps in asset prices

JEL Classification: D52, D53, G12

Suggested Citation:

Cres, Hervé and Markeprand, Tobias and Tvede, Mich Palle, Incomplete Financial Markets and Jumps in Asset Prices (July 23, 2009). University of Copenhagen Department of Economics Discussion Paper No. 09-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1438032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1438032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
T Andersen , L Benzoni , &amp; J Lund
An empirical investigation of continuous-time equity return models
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 1230 - 1284 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Balduzzi , S Foresi , &amp; D Hait
Price Barriers and the dynamics of asset prices in equilibrium
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 32 , p. 137 - 159 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R Bansal , &amp; I Shaliastovich
Learning, long run risks and asset price jumps Posted: 2008
T Bewley
Existence of equilibrium in economies with infinitely many commmodities
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 4 , p. 514 - 540 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Enrique Covarrubias
The equilibrium set of economies with a continuous consumption space
Journal of Mathematical Economics , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 137 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Enrique Covarrubias
The number of equilibria of smooth infinite economies
Journal of Mathematical Economics , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 263 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
622,944
2 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Exchange Rate and its Fundamentals. A Chaotic Perspective

By Paul De Grauwe and Marianna Grimaldi

"Price Barriers" and the Dynamics of Asset Prices in Equilibrium

By Pierluigi Balduzzi, Silverio Foresi, ...

How Credible are the Exchange Rate Regimes of the EU Accession Countries? Empirical Evidence from Market Sentiments

By Bernhard Herz and Christian Bauer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies