Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis of Discretionary Accrual Estimation Models in Earnings Management Research

47 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2010 Last revised: 17 Apr 2012

Edilson Paulo

Federal University of Santa Catarina

Eliseu Martins

University of São Paulo (USP)

Date Written: February 28, 2009

Abstract

The main goal of this research is to verify the theoretical and empirical validity of operational models to measure discretionary accruals, which are used in the detection of accounting earnings management. Initially, a theoretical-critical analysis is presented about the specification of the operational models present in literature for discretionary accrual estimation. Based on observations about the construction of analytic-empirical models and empirical evidence from earlier studies, a new model was proposed to analyze accruals behavior and estimate discretionary accruals. This empirical-analytical study also uses bibliographic and descriptive research. The sample in this study is constituted by the group of publicly-traded companies in the North-American and Latin-American capital markets, covering the period between 1996 and 2005. The models’ specification and predictive power is analyzed through different statistical procedures. All operational discretionary accrual measurement models used to detect accounting earnings management are estimated through the pooling of independent cross sections approach for all economic environments. The model with the best predictive power is chosen by the adjusted R2 analysis, Akaike and Schwarz criteria and Voung’s Test. The results of this research suggest that the operational discretionary accrual estimation models present in current literature do not present adequate theoretical foundations and that some of these models are weakly specified, have low predictive power and are significantly affected by the economic environment. Moreover, the results prove that the operational model proposed in this study to estimate discretionary accruals for earnings management has greater power to explain accrual behavior in all economic environments under analysis.

Keywords: discretionary accruals, analytic-empirical models, earnings management

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Paulo, Edilson and Martins, Eliseu, A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis of Discretionary Accrual Estimation Models in Earnings Management Research (February 28, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1439836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1439836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Ray ; Ball , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Earnings quality UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005-02
Crossref
Eli ; Bartov , Partha Mohanram
Private information, earnings manipulations, and executive stock-options exercises
The Accounting Review , p. 889 - 920 Posted: 2004-10
Crossref
Sudipta Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997-12
Crossref
Messod D Beneish
Earnings management: a perspective. Managerial Finance. West Yorkshire: v , volume 27 , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 2001-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,919
RANK
276,216
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies