Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Corporate Capital Stocks: Cross-sectional and Inter-temporal Stock Return Patterns

AFA 2011 Denver Meetings Paper

54 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2009 Last revised: 16 Mar 2010

Jacob S. Sagi

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Finance Area

Matthew I. Spiegel

Yale University - Yale School of Management, International Center for Finance

Masahiro Watanabe

University of Alberta - School of Business; University of Alberta - Department of Finance and Statistical Analysis

Date Written: September 6, 2009

Abstract

We investigate a general multiple security equilibrium model in which firms adjust their capital stock in response to economic shocks. Asset values are determined by competitive risk-averse investors. When corporate capital increases in value, firms react by creating more of it. This leads to additional risk that must be borne by investors. Overall, the model generates a VAR(1) structure for the state variables determining the cross-section of expected returns, and is broadly consistent with stylized facts (e.g., the value premium, size premium, earnings momentum, and investment premium). In addition, the paper tests a new prediction of the model and finds support for it in the data.

Keywords: capital investment, profitability of capital, equity issuance, expected return, overlapping generations model, supply shocks

JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

Sagi, Jacob and Spiegel, Matthew I. and Watanabe, Masahiro, Dynamic Corporate Capital Stocks: Cross-sectional and Inter-temporal Stock Return Patterns (September 6, 2009). AFA 2011 Denver Meetings Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1439044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1439044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Todd Houge , Tim Loughran
Do Investors Capture the Value Premium?
Financial Management , volume 35 , p. 5 - 19 Posted: 2006
David Ikenberry , Josef Lakonishok , Theo Vermaelen
Market Underreaction to Open Market Share Repurchases
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 39 , p. 181 - 208 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Kooyul Jung , Yong Cheol Kim , Rene M Stulz
Timing, Investment Opportunities, Managerial Discretion, and the Security Issue Decision
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 42 , p. 159 - 185 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Leonid Kogan
Asset Prices and Real Investment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 73 , p. 411 - 431 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,146
RANK
232,476
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Optimal Investment, Growth Options, and Security Returns

By Jonathan Berk, Richard C. Green, ...

The Value Premium

By Lu Zhang

A Cross-Sectional Test of a Production-Based Asset Pricing Model

By John H. Cochrane

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies