Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decomposition of a Certain Cash Flow Stream: Systemic Value Added and Net Final Value

Bulletin of Economic Research, Vol. 55, No. 2, pp.149-176, 2003

32 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2009

Carlo Alberto Magni

Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE) - School of Doctorate E4E (Engineering for Economics-Economics for Engineering)

Date Written: August 31, 2000

Abstract

This paper proposes a method for evaluating a project under certainty by means of a systemic outlook, which borrows from accounting the way of representing economic facts while replacing accounting values with cash values. The investor's net worth is regarded as a system whose structure changes over time. On this basis, a profitability index is presented, here named Systemic Value Added (SVA), which lends itself to a periodic decomposition. While as an overall index the Systemic Value Added coincides with the Net Final Value (NFV) of an investment, the systemic partition of a SVA is shown to differ from the Net Present Value (NPV) decomposition model proposed by Peccati (1987, 1992), which in turn bears a strong resemblance to Stewart's (1991) EVA model. The different assumptions the three models rely on are analysed: Some inconsistencies arise in the NFV-based approach, which give rise to Peccati's and Stewart's model, but they can be healed (only in a certain sense) by re-shaping the model and taking account of the systemic approach. To this end, the introduction of a shadow project is needed which enables us to avoid compounding. An interesting result is that we can decompose the SVA of a project by applying Peccati's argument to its shadow, or which is the same, by computing the shadow project's Economic Value Added. The paper then generalizes the approach allowing for a portfolio of projects, multiple debts and multiple synchronic opportunity costs of capital, for which a tetra-dimensional decomposition is easily obtained.

Keywords: residual income, systemic value added, decomposition

JEL Classification: M41, G11, G12, G31

Suggested Citation:

Magni, Carlo Alberto, Decomposition of a Certain Cash Flow Stream: Systemic Value Added and Net Final Value (August 31, 2000). Bulletin of Economic Research, Vol. 55, No. 2, pp.149-176, 2003 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1440943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
S Gronchi
On Investment Criteria Based on the Internal Rate of Return
Oxford Economic Papers , volume 38 , p. 174 - 80 Posted: 1986-05
Crossref
J Hirshleifer
On the Theory of Optimal Investment Decision
Journal of Political Economy , volume 66 , p. 329 - 52 Posted: 1958-08
Crossref
E Luciano , L Peccati
A Decomposition of Random Net Present Values
Recent Research in Financial Modelling , p. 17 - 23 Posted: 1993
Crossref
L ; Peccati , Dcf E Risultati Di Periodo , X I Atti , A M A S E S Convegno , Aosta , L Peccati
Valutazione analitica e sintetica di attivit finanziarie, Rivista Milanese di Economia, serie Quaderni n , volume 21 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,285
RANK
312,896
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Decomposition of a Certain Cash Flow Stream: Differential Systemic Value and Net Final Value

By Carlo Alberto Magni

Systemic Value Added, Residual Income and Decomposition of a Cash Flow Stream

By Carlo Alberto Magni

Systemic Value Added: An Alternative to EVA as a Residual Income Model (Valore Aggiunto Sistemico: un'alternativa all'EVA quale indice di sovraprofitto periodale)

By Carlo Alberto Magni

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies