Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relative Weights on Performance Measures in a Principal-Agent Model with Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection

AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

53 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2009

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Jose M. Plehn-Dujowich

Powerlytics. Inc.

Chunwei Xian

Northeastern Illinois University

Date Written: August 6, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines the role of multiple measures of performance in a principal-agent model incorporating both moral hazard and adverse selection. The outcome of interest to the principal depends stochastically on the agent’s unobservable ability and effort, while the principal implements a contract contingent on two noisy measures of the outcome. There are three main findings. First, the weights assigned the performance measures are reduced in the presence of adverse selection because the informational rent paid to the agent lowers the return to the principal of hiring the agent, but it does not affect how informative one signal is relative to another. Second, the weights assigned the signals are decreasing in the sensitivity of performance to ability. Third, a signal is assigned more weight if and only if it is more precise and sensitive to the agent’s effort; thus, the Banker and Datar (1989) result is robust to the introduction of adverse selection. An empirical test of the model is provided in the context of the CEO pay-for-performance sensitivity and the investment opportunities set (IOS) of the firms they manage. If high IOS firms are more ability-intensive, the model predicts the weights on the performance measures are decreasing in IOS. We examine a sample of 12,221 firm-year observations for 1,411 firms spanning the period 1992-2006 obtained from ExecuComp, CRSP, and Compustat. In agreement with the model, we find that CEO compensation is less sensitive to accounting and stock returns in high IOS firms.

Keywords: Adverse selection, moral hazard, pay-for-performance sensitivity, investment opportunities

JEL Classification: M46, M40

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Plehn-Dujowich, Jose M. and Xian, Chunwei, Relative Weights on Performance Measures in a Principal-Agent Model with Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection (August 6, 2009). AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1444844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1444844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
N C Agarwal
Determinants of executive compensation
Industrial Relations , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 46 Posted: 1981
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: the impact of risk on executive compensation
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
W R Baber , S N Janankiraman , S Kang
Investment opportunities and the structure of executive compensation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 318 Posted: 1996
Crossref
W R Baber , S N Janankiraman , S Kang
Accounting earnings and executive compensation: The role of earnings persistence
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 169 - 193 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,757
RANK
257,340
2 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies