Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Methods of Identifying Management Forecasts: CIG vs. Researcher Collected

54 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2010 Last revised: 28 Jun 2012

Elizabeth Chuk

University of California, Irvine

Dawn A. Matsumoto

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Gregory S. Miller

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: June 25, 2012

Abstract

This paper examines the characteristics of management forecasts available on Thomson First Call’s Company Issued Guidance (CIG) database relative to a sample of forecasts hand-collected through a search of company press releases. Due to the significantly lower cost of using CIG (relative to hand-collecting data), academics have increasingly relied on this database as a source of management forecasts. However, it is important for researchers to consider the properties of this database (such as coverage, accuracy, and breadth) when evaluating whether it is an appropriate data source for their study. Overall, our results suggest systematic differences between forecasts reported on CIG and forecasts gathered from company press releases. We suggest several sample criteria that will remove or mitigate these biases.

Suggested Citation:

Chuk, Elizabeth and Matsumoto, Dawn and Miller, Gregory S., Assessing Methods of Identifying Management Forecasts: CIG vs. Researcher Collected (June 25, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1446978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1446978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J Choi , L Myers , Y Zang , D Ziebart
Do management EPS forecasts allow returns to reflect future earnings? Implication for the continuation of management's quarterly earnings guidance
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 16 , p. 143 - 182 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Copeland , R Marioni
Executives' forecasts of earnings per share versus forecasts of naïve models
Journal of Business , p. 497 - 512 Posted: 1972-10
Crossref
M Feng , W Ge , C Li , N Nagarajan
Repeated lies? How earnings manipulators guide investors. Working paper Posted: 2011
M Feng , C Li , S Mcvay
Internal control and management guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 190 - 209 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
527
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,434
RANK
121,660
41 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies