Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Accounting Matrix for India

43 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2009

Vijay Ojha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Barun Pal

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sanjib Pohit

National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER)

Joyashree Roy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 19, 2009

Abstract

This paper provides the latest SAM for Indian economy with wide variety of disaggregation for Energy sector and sectors that are relevant for environmental and climate policy evaluation. Social accounting matrix (SAM) for India 2003-04 shows the interaction between production, income, consumption and capital accumulation. It can be used to provide an analysis of the interrelationship between the production structure of an economy and the distribution of incomes and expenditures of different household groups. It shows 9 household groups and can be used as basic data base for CGE modeling of the Indian economy. This SAM consists of 36 sectors of the economy, 3 factors of production and 9 categories of occupational households. Indian economy is becoming structurally biased towards capital intensive sectors like service and energy production. Most energy intensive sector is the energy production sector itself followed by transport and manufacturing as of 2003-2004.

Keywords: SAM, India, Climate sensitive sectors, CGE model, Energy intensity, energy consumption by household category

JEL Classification: C67

Suggested Citation:

Ojha, Vijay and Pal, Barun and Pohit, Sanjib and Roy, Joyashree, Social Accounting Matrix for India (August 19, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1457628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1457628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Fritz Breuss , Steininger
Biomass Energy Use to reduce Climate Change: A general Equilibrium Analysis for Austria
Journal of Policy Modeling Posted: 1998
Gas Authority of India Ltd
Annual Reports
Hydro Electricity Corporation of India (2003-04): Annual Report , p. 2003 - 2007
Crossref
Ministry Of Agriculture
Cost of Cultivation of Principal Crops in India, Government of India Posted: 2000
Load more
12 Citations
Koushik Das , Pinaki Chakraborti
International Trade, Environment and Market Imperfection: A Computable General Equilibrium Analysis for India
South Asian Journal of Macroeconomics and Public Finance , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 157 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Koushik Das
General Equilibrium Analysis of Strategic Trade
Foreign Trade Review , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 219 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Koushik Das
Handbook of Research on Military Expenditure on Economic and Political Resources
, p. 106 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Koushik Das , Pinaki Chakraborti
General Equilibrium Analysis of Strategic Trade: A Computable General Equilibrium Model for India
IIM Kozhikode Society & Management Review , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 165 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
920
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,627
RANK
58,738
12 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Data Collection & Data Estimation Methodology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies