Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analytical and Empirical Measure of the Degree of Conditional Conservatism

44 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2009

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Dan Segal

Reichman University

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 27, 2009

Abstract

The Vuolteenaho (2002) return decomposition is linear because it assumes that the market's return expectations are obtained solely from accounting information. By restricting accounting recognition rules to specific (and primarily) negative future cash flow shocks, conservative accounting drives a wedge between the market's return expectations that are based upon all positive and negative cash flow shocks and return expectations that are based solely on accounting numbers. This insight allow us to derive analytically a nonlinear relation between revisions to returns and earnings news for conservative firms, of which the Basu relation is a special case. This nonlinear relation is shown to be mathematically equivalent to two linear relations conditioned on the firm's degree of conservatism. From these relations, we derive a model-based measure of the degree of conservatism at the firm-year level which is a function of the determinants of conditional conservatism. To account for the endogeneity of the firm's degree of conservatism and mitigate potential sample selection bias (Dietrich, Muller and Reidl 2007), the model is implemented empirically using a switching regression approach in which the switch point, namely, the degree of conservatism, is both unobservable and endogenously determined. Consistent estimates of the parameters of the switching regression, including the endogenous determinants of conservatism posited by Watts, are obtained by simultaneous maximum likelihood estimation. The results indicate that the degree of conservatism is a positive function of contractual information asymmetry and litigation risk but a negative function of taxes.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, nonlinearity, switching regression

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Segal, Dan, An Analytical and Empirical Measure of the Degree of Conditional Conservatism (August 27, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1462778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1462778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Antle , J S Demski , S G Ryan
Multiple Sources of Information, Valuation, and Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 9 , p. 675 - 696 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How Much New Information is there in Earnings
Working Paper Posted: 2008
Crossref
Ray Ball , S.P. Kothari , Valeri V. Nikolaev
Econometrics of the Basu Asymmetric Timeliness Coefficient and Accounting Conservatism
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 09-16 Pages: 36 Posted: 13 Jul 2007 Last revised: 19 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Bar-Yosef , J L Callen , J Livnat
Autoregressive Modeling of Earnings-Investment Causality
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 11 - 28 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,066
RANK
109,965
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies