Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy Classification of Firms Investigated by the US Securities and Exchange Commission: An Evolutionary Ensemble Computing Model Approach

International Journal of Applied Decision Sciences, 2009, Vol.2, No.4, pp.360-388.

42 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2009 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Sergio Davalos

University of Washington, Tacoma - Milgard School of Business

Fei Leng

University of Washington, Tacoma

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Zhiyan Cao

University of Washington Tacoma

Date Written: August 26, 2009

Abstract

This paper develops an adaptive ensemble model for bankruptcy classification of firms cited in the SEC's Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAER). We develop a Genetic Algorithm (GA) model for bankruptcy classification of AAER firms. Our research contributes to the bankruptcy literature in several ways. First of all, it fills a gap in the bankruptcy literature by developing a domain specific model for AAER firms. Secondly, by using financial and non-financial variables, the GA model generates and optimizes a set of 'if-then' comprehensible rules for the financial failure classification of AAER firms. A Genetic Algorithm model can provide a greater degree of accuracy in predicting financial failure of firms than classical statistical models. Thirdly, we develop a model using bagging that incorporates the output from different models or sources. Finally, we demonstrate the key role of the fitness function in determining the successful performance of a financial failure GA model.

Keywords: SEC, AAER, genetic algorithm, evolutionary computing, fitness function, concept learning, bagging, bankruptcy classification, ensemble, multiple classifier, hybrid classifier, accounting and political economy

JEL Classification: C45, C61, G18, G38, K22, L81, M40

Suggested Citation:

Davalos, Sergio and Leng, Fei and Feroz, Ehsan H. and Cao, Zhiyan, Bankruptcy Classification of Firms Investigated by the US Securities and Exchange Commission: An Evolutionary Ensemble Computing Model Approach (August 26, 2009). International Journal of Applied Decision Sciences, 2009, Vol.2, No.4, pp.360-388., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1462565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1462565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
V Agarwal , Richard Taffler
Comparing the performance of market-based and accounting-based bankruptcy classification models
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , p. 1541 - 1551 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Classification of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
B Back , T Laitinen , K Sere , M Van Wezel
Choosing Bankruptcy Predictors Using Discriminant Analysis, Logit Analysis, and Genetic Algorithms Posted: 1996-09
B Back , T Laitinen , K Sere
Neural networks and Bankruptcy Classification: Funds Flows, Accrual Ratios, and Accounting Data
Advances in Accounting , volume 14 , p. 23 - 37 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,044
RANK
284,107
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Default Risk in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou and Yuhang Xing

News Related to Future GDP Growth as a Risk Factor in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

News Related to Future GDP Growth as Risk Factors in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies