Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Another Look at Equity and Enterprise Valuation Based on Multiples

45 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2009 Last revised: 5 Apr 2012

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Peter D. Easton

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Julian Yeo

Columbia University - Accounting

Date Written: April 2, 2012

Abstract

We examine errors in enterprise and equity valuation based on multiples of firm fundamentals. Our study, which is based on a more representative sample (including firms with losses, smaller start up firms, etc.), complements extant studies, which are based on larger, profitable firms followed by analysts. Contrary to the results in the extant studies, we find that: (1) valuation errors for multiples based on sales are often lowest for both enterprise and equity value; and, (2) when we compare book value and earnings as valuation fundamentals, we find that book-value-based multiples outperform earnings-based multiples. Our focus is on multiples of current financial variables. We show vast improvement in valuation errors when an average omitted variable (intercept) is incorporated in the calculation of harmonic means. We extend the extant literature by demonstrating how harmonic means can be calculated when different multiples are combined, enabling us to examine the change in valuation errors when a combination of multiples is used instead of just a single multiple. Our results show that valuation errors are significantly improved when combining fundamentals from different financial statements; the largest improvement is observed when balance sheet fundamentals (net operating assets and book value of equity) are combined with fundamentals from the income statement (for example, EBITDA).

Keywords: Valuation, Financial Statement Analysis, Multiples, Market Efficiency

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Mingcherng and Easton, Peter D. and Yeo, Julian, Another Look at Equity and Enterprise Valuation Based on Multiples (April 2, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1462794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1462794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
P Asquith , M Mikhail , A Au
Information Content of Equity Analyst Reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R P Beatty , S Riffe , R Thompson
The Method of Comparables and Tax Court Valuations of Private Firms: An Empirical Investigation
Accounting Horizon , volume 13 , p. 177 - 199 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Brealey , S Myers , F Allen
Principles of Corporate Finance. 8 th Edition Posted: 2007
A Damodaran
Investment Valuation: Tools and Techniques for Determining the Value of any Asset Posted: 2002
Load more
2 Citations
Maria Dimitriou
The Accounting Treatment of Firms’ Valuation Based on IFRS and Greek GAAP for Appropriate Investment Decision Making Using ICT
Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF:0,58), 25: 150-151, 2018 · 40 Pages · Posted: 17 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 82
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maria Dimitriou
A Philosophical Research Paradigm and a Theoretical Perspective of a Valuation Report in the Beverage Sector
Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF: 0,47), Spring,7:38, 2019 · 34 Pages · Posted: 16 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 84
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,637
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,894
RANK
25,428
2 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies