Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Banks, Capital Regulation, and Risk-Taking

AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

42 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2009 Last revised: 29 Jan 2010

Jing Li

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: July 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines risk-taking incentives in banks under different accounting regimes with capital regulation. In the model the bank's decisions of capital issuance and investment policy are jointly determined. Given some exogenous minimum capital requirement, the bank is more likely to issue equity capital in excess of the minimum required level and implement less risky investment policy under either lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or fair value accounting than under historical cost accounting. But fair value accounting may induce more risk-taking compared to lower-of-cost-or- market accounting due to short-term interest on the part of the bank. However, the disciplining role of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting may discourage bank from exerting project discovery effort ex-ante. From the regulator's perspective, the optimal accounting choice will be governed by a tradeoff between the social cost of capital regulation and the efficiency of the bank's project discovery efforts. When the former effect dominates, the regulator prefers lower-of-cost-or-market accounting; when the latter effect dominates, the regulator may prefer other regimes.

Keywords: Fair value accounting, bank risk-taking, capital regulation

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jing, Accounting for Banks, Capital Regulation, and Risk-Taking (July 1, 2009). AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1463101 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1463101
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Andrea
Fair value accounting and financial stability, Working paper, European central bank Posted: 2004
J Bachar , N D Melumad , G Weyns
On cost tradeoffs between conservative and market value accounting
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 2 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1997
M E Barth
Fair value accounting: evidence from investment securities and the market valuation of banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,061
RANK
135,498
8 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies