Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pass-Through Taxation and the Value of the Firm

The American Business Review, Vol. 20, No. 2 pp. 47-54, June 2002

Posted: 29 Aug 2009

Terrance Jalbert

University of Hawaii - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: June 1, 2002

Abstract

A great deal of work has been done on the optimal capital structure and valuation of the firm. The majority of the literature explores valuation and optimal capital structure conditions under the double taxation system. In this paper, valuation equations and optimal capital structure conditions for firms whose earnings are subject to the double taxation system and for firms whose earnings are subject to the pass-through taxation system are developed. The test results indicate that firm values closely approximate those suggested by the equations.

Keywords: Valuation, Capital Structure, Taxes

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Jalbert, Terrance, Pass-Through Taxation and the Value of the Firm (June 1, 2002). The American Business Review, Vol. 20, No. 2 pp. 47-54, June 2002 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1463788
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,269
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies