Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Expectations Manipulation on the Usefulness of Analyst Forecasts in Firm Valuation*

42 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2009

Yao Tian

San Jose State University

Date Written: August 30, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of expectations manipulation on the usefulness of analyst forecasts in the residual income valuation model. Recognizing that firms may guide down analyst forecast to either truthfully communicate information (legitimate guidance) or mislead analysts to produce beatable forecasts (expectations manipulation), this study first develops a measure to isolate expectations manipulation from the overall forecast guidance. It then assesses forecast usefulness by the performance of forecast-based intrinsic value metrics (V) to predict firm value. The results show that V estimated using manipulated forecasts have less ability to explain stock price and predict future returns. These results remain after controlling for firm size, earnings performance, forecast accuracy, etc. Based on these findings, I conclude that expectations manipulation reduces the usefulness of analyst forecasts in firm valuation, as it impairs the performance of forecast-based valuation models to predict firm value.

Keywords: Residual income valuation, analyst forecast, expectations manipulation, management forecast guidance

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Yao, The Impact of Expectations Manipulation on the Usefulness of Analyst Forecasts in Firm Valuation* (August 30, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1464467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1464467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/undereaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1991
Crossref
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E Bartov , D A Cohen
Mechanisms to Meet/Beat Analyst Earnings Expectations in the Pre-and Post-Sarbanes-Oxley Eras , p. 7 - 18 Posted: 2007
W H Beaver
Perspectives on recent capital market research
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 2 , p. 453 - 74 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,920
RANK
427,290
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies