Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Philosophical Paradigms, Inquiry Strategies and Knowledge Claims: Applying the Principles of Research Design and Conduct to Taxation

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 5-22, 2008

UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2009-31

18 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2009

Margaret A. McKerchar

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

Taxation is a fundamental part of everyday life and it comes as no surprise that it attracts great interest from policymakers, academics, business and the wider community both in Australia and overseas. However, those interested in tax research come from very diverse discipline backgrounds including law, accounting, economics, political science, psychology and philosophy. The prior learning of many tax researchers does tend to be in the study and application of the law and typically they have little training in or exposure to the detail of the theory and practice of research design. This is a limitation for both academics and for the growing body of research students that they are being called upon to supervise. There is capacity to improve the capability of tax researchers by evaluating best practice in closely related disciplines and exploring that of other disciplines that could have relevance to taxation.

The paper explores the fundamental aspects of research design, including a range of philosophical paradigms and strategies of inquiries that could have application to taxation. The framing of research questions (or hypotheses) is considered, as is the need for alignment between research objectives, research questions, philosophical paradigms, strategies of inquiry and knowledge claims. The application of mixed-method designs is also considered. Pitfalls in research design to be avoided are discussed as are suggestions by which the robustness of tax research can be improved.

Keywords: Taxation, research design

Suggested Citation:

McKerchar, Margaret A., Philosophical Paradigms, Inquiry Strategies and Knowledge Claims: Applying the Principles of Research Design and Conduct to Taxation (2008). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 5-22, 2008, UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2009-31, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1464141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
M Salter , J Mason
Writing Law Dissertations, Pearson Education Ltd Posted: 2007
T Hutchinson
Researching and Writing in Law, 2 nd edn Posted: 2005
D Pearce , E Campbell , D Harding
Australian Law Schools: A Discipline Assessment for the Commonwealth Tertiary Education Commission Posted: 1987
Load more
2 Citations
David Fernandes , Kerrie Sadiq
A Principled Framework for Assessing General Anti-Avoidance Regimes
[2016] 2 British Tax Review 172-207 · 37 Pages · Posted: 26 Jul 2019 · Last revised: 1 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alexander Fullarton
Miners’ Motivation - the Mass-Marketed Tax Avoidance Schemes of the 1990s in the Pilbara Region of Western Australia
Alexander Robert Fullarton, 'Miners' motivation : the mass-marketed tax avoidance schemes of the 1990s in the Pilbara region of Western Australia' (PhD Thesis, University of New South Wales, 2013)., Lex Fullarton, 'Heat, Dust and Taxes: A story of tax schemes in Australia's Outback' (Ibidem Verlag, 2015) · 347 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 26 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 75
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
838
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,549
RANK
66,809
2 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Law & Justice Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies