Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Conditional Correlations for Asymmetric Processes

26 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2009

Manabu Asai

Soka University - Faculty of Economics

Michael McAleer

Erasmus University Rotterdam - Erasmus School of Economics, Econometric Institute; Tinbergen Institute; University of Tokyo - Centre for International Research on the Japanese Economy (CIRJE), Faculty of Economics

Date Written: August 30, 2009

Abstract

The paper develops two Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) models, namely the Wishart DCC (WDCC) model and the Matrix-Exponential Conditional Correlation (MECC) model. The paper applies the WDCC approach to the exponential GARCH (EGARCH) and GJR models to propose asymmetric DCC models. We use the standardized multivariate t-distribution to accommodate heavy-tailed errors. The paper presents an empirical example using the trivariate data of the Nikkei 225, Hang Seng and Straits Times Indices for estimating and forecasting the WDCC-EGARCH and WDCC-GJR models, and compares the performance with the asymmetric BEKK model. The empirical results show that AIC and BIC favour the WDCC-EGARCH model to the WDCC-GJR and asymmetric BEKK models. Moreover, the empirical results indicate that the WDCC-EGARCH-t model produces reasonable VaR threshold forecasts, which are very close to the nominal 1% to 3% values.

Keywords: Dynamic conditional correlations, Wishart distribution, asymmetry, GJR, exponential GARCH, BEKK, heavy tails

JEL Classification: C32, C51, G11, G15

Suggested Citation:

Asai, Manabu and McAleer, Michael, Dynamic Conditional Correlations for Asymmetric Processes (August 30, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1464325 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1464325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
M Asai , M Mcaleer
A Portfolio Index GARCH Model
International Journal of Forecasting , volume 24 , p. 449 - 461 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Asai , M Mcaleer
The Structure of Dynamic Correlations in Multivariate Stochastic Volatility Models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 150 , p. 182 - 192 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Asai , M Mcaleer , J Yu
Multivariate Stochastic Volatility: A Review
Econometric Reviews , volume 25 , p. 145 - 175 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L Bauwens , S Laurent , J K V Rombouts
Multivariate GARCH Models: A Survey
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 21 , p. 79 - 109 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,465
RANK
140,123
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Measuring and Testing the Impact of News on Volatility

By Robert F. Engle and Victor K. Ng

Caviar: Conditional Value at Risk by Quantile Regression

By Simone Manganelli and Robert F. Engle

Dynamic Conditional Correlation - a Simple Class of Multivariate GARCH Models

By Robert F. Engle

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies