Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Tax Expense

48 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2009 Last revised: 27 Jun 2012

Jacob K. Thomas

Yale School of Management

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 12, 2010

Abstract

Both intuition and evidence suggest that tax expense reflects value lost to taxes paid. Inconsistent with this traditional valuation role for tax expense, some recent research finds that tax expense surprise, especially its current component, is positively associated with stock returns. Holding pre-tax income surprise constant, a higher tax expense surprise is associated with higher returns, even though net income is lower. To reconcile this apparent conflict, we propose that a) tax expense can reflect both value lost to taxes paid and underlying profitability, and b) the proxy-for-profitability role is more important when profitability is weakly related to pre-tax book income and strongly related to tax expense. As a result, the coefficient on tax expense in valuation regressions varies across samples and specifications based on the relative ability of pre-tax book income and tax expense to reflect profitability. While the conditions that favor the proxy-for-profitability role may appear restrictive and not frequently encountered, in fact that role generally dominates the traditional value-lost-to-taxes role because pre-tax book income reflects profitability poorly for most samples and specifications. The main implication is that inferences based on the valuation coefficients associated with different tax variables should be made with caution, as they could be affected substantially by other correlated factors.

Keywords: Valuation, stock returns, tax expense

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Jacob and Zhang, Frank, Valuation of Tax Expense (August 12, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1464162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1464162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
E Amir , M Kirschenheiter , K Willard
The valuation of deferred taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2011
Crossref
B Ayers
Deferred tax accounting under SFAS No. 109: an empirical investigation of its incremental value-relevance relative to APB No
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 11 , p. 195 - 212 Posted: 1998
B Ayers , X Jiang , &amp; S Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: the effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
10 Citations
Lisa De Simone , Bridget Stomberg
Do Investors Differentially Value Tax Avoidance of Income Mobile Firms?
42 Pages · Posted: 10 Jul 2012 · Downloads: 798
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
JACOB THOMAS , FRANK X. ZHANG
Tax Expense Momentum
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 791 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Dan S. Dhaliwal , Steven E. Kaplan , Rick C. Laux , Eric H. Weisbrod
The Information Content of Tax Expense for Firms Reporting Losses
42 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2010 · Last revised: 19 Apr 2012 · Downloads: 498
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
DAN S. DHALIWAL , STEVEN E. KAPLAN , RICK C. LAUX , ERIC WEISBROD
The Information Content of Tax Expense for Firms Reporting Losses
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 135 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,980
RANK
60,358
10 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies