Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Methods to Estimate the Implied Cost of Equity Capital: A Simulation Study

AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

53 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2009 Last revised: 16 Dec 2010

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

Jörn van Halteren

University of Mannheim - Department of Business Administration and Finance

Ernst G. Maug

University of Mannheim Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 14, 2010

Abstract

We evaluate accounting-based methods to estimate the implied cost of capital using a simulation approach. We simulate a model economy in which the true cost of capital is known and calibrate it to the CRSP-Compustat universe. We then compare the true cost of capital to the implied cost of capital estimates from ten different methods proposed in the literature in terms of bias, accuracy, and their correlation with the true cost of equity capital. Methods based on the residual income model perform better than those based on the abnormal earnings growth model. Methods that estimate the cost of capital and expected growth simultaneously work reasonably well if they rely on analyst forecasts instead of ex post realized values, even if analyst forecasts are biased. We suggest combined methods that are chosen so that the distortions from individual methods compensate each other and show that some simple combinations outperform all individual methods.

Keywords: Implied cost of capital, valuation, residual income, abnormal earnings growth, simulation

JEL Classification: C15, E37, M41

Suggested Citation:

Daske, Holger and van Halteren, Jörn and Maug, Ernst G., Evaluating Methods to Estimate the Implied Cost of Equity Capital: A Simulation Study (December 14, 2010). AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1465294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1465294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
M Arellano , O Bover
Another Look at the Instrumental-Variable Estimation of Error-components Models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 1995
Crossref
B V Balachandran , R Balakrishnan , K Sivaramakrishnan
On the Efciency of Cost-Based Decision Rules for Capacity Planning
Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 Posted: 1997
M E Barth , S Kallapur
The Eects of Cross-Sectional Scale Dierences on Regression Results in Empirical Accounting Research
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 Posted: 1996
Crossref
W Beaver , P Kettler , M Scholes
The Association between Market Determined and Accounting Determined Risk Measures
The Accounting Review , volume 45 , issue 4 Posted: 1970
Load more
9 Citations
Narjess Boubakri , Omrane Guedhami , Dev Mishra , Walid Saffar
Political connections and the cost of equity capital
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 541 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Matthias Xaver Hanauer , Christoph Jäckel , Christoph Kaserer
A New Look at the Fama-French Model: Evidence Based on Expected Returns
42 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2012 · Last revised: 28 Mar 2014 · Downloads: 996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tom Sieber , Barbara E. Weißenberger , Tatjana Oberdörster , Jörg Baetge
Let’s talk strategy: the impact of voluntary strategy disclosure on the cost of equity capital
Business Research , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 263 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Daniel Dupuis , Lawrence Kryzanowski
Redefining Short Sales Constraints
48 Pages · Posted: 20 Jul 2014 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,481
RANK
34,120
9 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Equity Premium Consensus Forecast Revisited

By Ivo Welch

The Worldwide Equity Premium: A Smaller Puzzle

By Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh, ...

The Market Risk Premium: Expectational Estimates Using Analysts' Forecasts

By Robert S. Harris and Felicia C. Marston

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies