Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discontinuities and Earnings Management: Evidence from Restatements Related to Securities Litigation

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2009 Last revised: 30 Sep 2011

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

Date Written: September 30, 2011

Abstract

Numerous studies infer earnings management from discontinuities around earnings benchmarks despite no direct evidence of an association. This study provides direct evidence relating discontinuities to earnings management by comparing the distribution of restated earnings to originally-reported earnings among firms that settle accounting-related securities litigation and restate earnings from the alleged GAAP violation period. Discontinuities are not present in the distribution of analyst forecast errors, earnings changes, and earnings levels using restated earnings but are present using originally-reported earnings. These shifts are caused by earnings management and cannot be explained by differences in scaling, sample selection, or other research design issues.

Keywords: Meet or Beat, Earnings Discontinuities, Earnings Management, Securities Litigation, Restatements

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and McInnis, John M. and Mergenthaler, Richard Dean, Discontinuities and Earnings Management: Evidence from Restatements Related to Securities Litigation (September 30, 2011). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1465029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1465029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
B C Ayers , J Jiang , P E Yeung
Discretionary accruals and earnings management: An analysis of pseudo earnings targets
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 617 - 652 Posted: 2006
Crossref
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , K K Nelson
An alternative interpretation of the discontinuity in earnings distributions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , p. 525 - 556 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
D Burgstahler , M Eames
Management of earnings and analysts' forecasts to achieve zero and small positive earnings surprises
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 33 , p. 633 - 651 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
666
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,794
RANK
90,228
10 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies