Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Residual Income Valuation: A New Approach Based on the Value-to-Book Multiple*

42 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2009

Kwon-Jung Kim

Chung-Ang University

Cheol Lee

Wayne State University

Samuel L. Tiras

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: August 31, 2009

Abstract

This paper presents a new way to implement the residual income model (RIM) that improves the estimates of fundamental equity value of the firm over those of existing valuation models. RIM can be expressed as a form of the value-to-book (V/B) ratio. We decompose a firm’s V/B ratio into its industry V/B and firm-differential V/B, and then estimate separately these two components using the industry P/B (price-to-book) ratio and analysts’ earnings forecasts. We find that by incorporating the impact of both industry economic factors and conservative accounting, we improve on the predictability of existing valuation models, specifically that of Frankel and Lee (1998). We also find that our valuation measure predicts future returns more accurately for firms with high level of accounting conservatism. Finally, the results suggest that our valuation measure is a better predictor of future returns than value estimates based on traditional multiple methods.

Keywords: equity valuation, residual income model, value-to-book ratio, accounting conservatism

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Kwon-Jung and Lee, Cheol and Tiras, Samuel L., Residual Income Valuation: A New Approach Based on the Value-to-Book Multiple* (August 31, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1465855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1465855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A S Ahmed
Accounting earnings and future economic rents: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , p. 377 - 400 Posted: 1994
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M H Stanford
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang , M A Trombley
Residual-income-based valuation predicts future stock returns: Evidence on mispricing vs. risk explanations
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 377 - 396 Posted: 2003
Crossref
W H Beaver , S Ryan
Biases and lags in book value and their effects on the ability of the book-to-market ratio to predict book return on equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 127 - 148 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
雨萱 李
Auditor Reputation and IPO Valuation Bubble
Frontiers of International Accounting , volume 12 , issue 04 , p. 536 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Daniel Giamouridis , Chris Montagu
The Sophisticated and the Simple: The Profitability of Contrarian Strategies from a Portfolio Manager's Perspective
European Financial Management , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 152 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Panagiotis G. Artikis , Christos G. Kampouris
Is intrinsic value priced in the cross section of stock returns?
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Maria Dimitriou
The Accounting Treatment of Firms’ Valuation Based on IFRS and Greek GAAP for Appropriate Investment Decision Making Using ICT
Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF:0,58), 25: 150-151, 2018 · 40 Pages · Posted: 17 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 82
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
621
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,788
RANK
98,680
5 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies