Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Diminished Idiosyncrasy as an Explanation for the Temporal Increase in the Earnings' Cash Flows Predictability

27 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2009

Steve C. Lim

Texas Christian University - M.J. Neeley School of Business

Date Written: August 31, 2009

Abstract

We find that the R2 of time-series regressions of next-year cash flows on current-year earnings has not significantly changed over time. This contrasts with the dramatic increase (over time) in the R2 of cross-sectional regressions in prior studies. We show evidence that cross-firm heterogeneity in the relation between next-year cash flows and current-year earnings has significantly decreased over time (call it diminished idiosyncrasy), which is consistent with the increase in the R2 of prior studies’ cross-sectional regressions. In addition, we show that cash flows smoothness is positively associated with the increase in earnings’ ability to predict future cash flows. Given this finding, it is premature to conclude that evidence on the increasing cash flows predictability of earnings conflicts with the declining value relevance of earnings as a predictor of stock returns.

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Steve, Diminished Idiosyncrasy as an Explanation for the Temporal Increase in the Earnings' Cash Flows Predictability (August 31, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1465686 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1465686
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M E Barth , D P Cram , K K Nelson
Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Brown , K Lo , T Lys
Use of R-square in Accounting Research: Measuring Changes in Value Relevance over the Last Four Decades
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 83 - 115 Posted: 1999
Crossref
P M Dechow , S P Kothari , R L Watts
The Relation Between Earnings and Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 133 - 68 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,485
RANK
672,649
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies