Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neglect of Multiplicity When Testing Families of Related Hypotheses*

46 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2009

Burt Holland

Temple University - Department of Accounting

sun wei fang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

Many accounting research papers report statistical results involving families of related tests of hypotheses. Unlike many scientific disciplines, accounting researchers rarely attend to a familywise Type I error concept; for example, control of the probability of incorrectly declaring at least one significant result in the family. Neglecting this principle can lead to an excessive number of false declarations of significance, and therefore, spurious inferences. We review some simple established methods for controlling for multiplicity. A few examples from the “Top 3” accounting journals illustrate that inattention to familywise control can affect primary study conclusions. A compromise approach is suggested for those who choose to present results either with or without recognition of familywise Type I error control.

Keywords: multiple comparisons, Bonferroni, Holm, publication bias, journal policies

Suggested Citation:

Holland, Burt and fang, sun wei and Basu, Sudipta, Neglect of Multiplicity When Testing Families of Related Hypotheses* (September 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1466343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1466343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Publication Manual of the APA Posted: 2001
Ethical Guidelines for Statistical Practice Posted: 2008
Crossref
O Ashenfelter , R H Haveman , J G Riley , J T Taylor
Editorial Statement
The American Economic Review , volume 76 , issue 4 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,637
RANK
618,599
4 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies