Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Responses to Earnings News: A Case for Ambiguity

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2009 Last revised: 26 Jun 2014

Christopher D. Williams

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: June 24, 2014

Abstract

This study empirically examines the role of shocks to macro-uncertainty in shaping the responses of stock market participants to firm-specific earnings news. Specifically, I find that investors place greater weight on bad news following an increase in macro-uncertainty. By contrast, I find that investors place equal weight on both good and bad news following a decrease in macro-uncertainty. Furthermore, my findings show that these effects are more pronounced 1) for firms whose prior returns are more correlated with macro-uncertainty, 2) for firms that experience abnormally low trading volume during the earnings announcement, 3) for firms with relatively lower levels of institutional ownership and 4) for firms with relatively higher information uncertainty. In sum, these findings provide novel empirical evidence that investors behave in a manner consistent with ambiguity-aversion, with the effects strongest among unsophisticated investors.

Keywords: ambiguity, risk, capital markets, earnings, asymmetric

JEL Classification: D81, D82, G10, M40

Suggested Citation:

Williams, Christopher D., Asymmetric Responses to Earnings News: A Case for Ambiguity (June 24, 2014). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1470085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1470085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S Akhtar , R Faff , B Oliver , A Subrahmanyam
The power of bad: The negativity bias in Australian consumer sentiment announcements on stock returns
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 35 , p. 1239 - 1249 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E W Anderson , E Ghysels , J L Juergens
The impact of risk and uncertainty on expected returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 263 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Salman Arif , Charles M.C. Lee
Aggregate Investment and Investor Sentiment
Review of Financial Studies (RFS), Forthcoming, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 181, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2014-44 Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Jan 2013 Last revised: 1 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,537
RANK
35,277
44 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Smooth Model of Decision Making Under Ambiguity

By Peter Klibanoff, Massimo Marinacci, ...

Model Misspecification and Under-Diversification

By Tan Wang and Raman Uppal

Model Misspecification and Under-Diversification

By Tan Wang and Raman Uppal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies