Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Qualitative Information in Capital Markets Research

39 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2009

Elaine Henry

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Andrew J. Leone

Northwestern University

Date Written: April 2009

Abstract

A growing stream of research in accounting and finance tests the extent to which the tone of financial disclosure narrative affects security prices, over and above the disclosed financial performance. These studies measure tone by counting the relative frequency of positive versus negative words in a given disclosure (e.g., earnings press releases). Critical to the analysis is the list of words deemed to be positive or negative. Most studies use general wordlists (GI or Diction) rather than wordlists that are specific to the domain of financial disclosure. General wordlists likely omit words that would be considered positive or negative in the context of financial disclosure and include words that would not. Application of general wordlists to financial disclosure also gives rise to problems with polysemy. For example, the word 'division' is considered a negative word in the GI wordlist, but that word is commonly used in financial disclosure to describe a segment of a company and is thus neither negative nor positive in a domain-specific context. In this study, we compare the predictive validity of these commonly-used wordlists to a wordlist developed specifically for the context of financial disclosure. Using a sample of over 15,000 earnings press releases, we find that the context-specific wordlist developed by Henry (2006, 2008) is more powerful than the general wordlists used in past research. Our findings suggest that capital markets researchers will benefit by using the domain-specific wordlist in the context of financial disclosure. These results will help to establish a firm foundation for research on qualitative information in financial disclosure.

Suggested Citation:

Henry, Elaine and Leone, Andrew J., Measuring Qualitative Information in Capital Markets Research (April 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1470807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1470807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Finance & Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
Crossref
B Berelson
Content Analysis in Communication Research Posted: 1952
M Alpert , S Rosenberg , E Pouget , R Shaw
Prosody and lexical accuracy in flat affect schizophrenia
Psychiatry Research , volume 97 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 107 - 118 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Bligh , G D Hess
The power of leading subtly: Alan Greenspan, rhetorical leadership, and monetary policy
The Leadership Quarterly , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
28 Citations
Dawn Matsumoto , Maarten Pronk , Erik Roelofsen
What Makes Conference Calls Useful? The Information Content of Managers' Presentations and Analysts' Discussion Sessions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 4 , p. 1383 Posted: 2011
Crossref
María Rosario Babío Arcay , Oscar Suárez Fernández , Rosario Vidal Lopo
Auditoría, comités de auditoría e neutralidade na información narrativa
Revista Galega de Economía , volume 22 , issue 1 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Ting Sun
The Incremental Informativeness of the Sentiment of Conference Calls for Internal Control Material Weaknesses
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 11 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Islam Al Qudah , Fethi A. Rabhi
Enterprise Applications, Markets and Services in the Finance Industry
, volume 345 , p. 101 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,785
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,376
RANK
22,254
28 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies