Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethics, Diversity Management and Financial Reporting Quality

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

20 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2009 Last revised: 13 Apr 2010

Réal Labelle

HEC Montréal - Stephen A. Jarislowsky Chair in Governance

Rim Makni Gargouri

University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Claude Francoeur

HEC Montréal

Date Written: September 10, 2009

Abstract

This article proposes and empirically tests a theoretical framework incorporating Reidenback and Robin’s (1991) conceptual model of corporate moral development. The framework is used to examine the relation of governance and business ethics, as proxied by diversity management, with financial reporting quality, as proxied by the magnitude of earnings management. The level of diversity management (DM) and governance quality are measured in accordance with the ratings of Jantzi Research (JR), a leading provider of social and governance research for institutional investors. This DM score is part of an index developed by JR that investment managers use to integrate DM criteria into their investment decisions. As expected, a negative relation between corporate DM development and FRQ is found while controlling for other factors known in the governance and accounting choices literatures to affect earnings quality. Despite some caveats presented in conclusion, this study contributes to the ethics, governance and financial reporting literatures by studying the dynamics between governance and ethics in the prevention of earnings management.

Keywords: ethics, diversity, diversity management, governance, financial reporting quality, earnings management, earnings quality

Suggested Citation:

Labelle, Réal and Makni Gargouri, Rim and Francoeur, Claude, Ethics, Diversity Management and Financial Reporting Quality (September 10, 2009). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1471332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Renée B. Adams , Daniel Ferreira
Women in the Boardroom and Their Impact on Governance and Performance
European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 57/2004 Pages: 51 Posted: 26 Mar 2008 Last revised: 31 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Armstrong , P C Flood , J P Guthrie , W Liu , S Maccurtain , T Mkamwa
New Models of High Performance Work Systems. The Business Case for Strategic HRM, Partnership and Diversity and Equality Systems (The Equality Authority and National Centre for Partnership and Performance) Posted: 2008
M Betz , L O&apos;connell , J M Shepard
Gender Differences in Proclivity for Unethical Behaviour
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 321 - 324 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R M Bowen , S Rajgopal , M Venkatachalam
Accounting Discretion, Corporate Governance and Firm Performance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 351 - 405 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
910
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,631
RANK
59,630
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Boards and Bank Loan Contracting

By Qiang Wu, Bill Francis, ...

Corporate Boards and Bank Loan Contracting

By Bill B. Francis, Iftekhar Hasan, ...

Gender Differences in Financial Reporting Decision-Making: Evidence from Accounting Conservatism

By Bill Francis, Iftekhar Hasan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies