Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trading Volume Around Earnings Announcements and Other Financial Reports: Theory, Research Design, Empirical Evidence, and Directions for Future Research

85 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2009 Last revised: 18 Mar 2010

Linda Smith Bamber

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Orie E. Barron

Pennsylvania State University

Douglas E. Stevens

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Date Written: February 27, 2010

Abstract

This paper reviews, synthesizes, and critiques the capital market literature examining trading volume around earnings announcements and other financial reports. Our purposes are to assess what we have learned from examining trading volume around these announcements and to suggest directions for future research. We conclude that researchers have yet to realize the potential Beaver (1968) identified for trading volume to yield unique insights regarding the nature of earnings announcements and other financial reports, and the effects of these announcements on market participants. This state of the literature is attributable to a dearth of volume theory early on, and more recently to a disconnect between theoretical development and empirical research. Thus, we begin by briefly summarizing developments in trading volume theory since Beaver (1968). We also discuss unique measurement challenges in trading volume research, including identifying appropriate proxies for abnormal trading volume and for individual investors’ beliefs. In light of theory and empirical measurement issues, we interpret the current literature and identify directions for future research. We conclude that extant research just scratches the surface of what trading volume can reveal about the characteristics of financial disclosures and the effects of these disclosures on investors.

Keywords: Trading Volume, Earnings Announcements, Information Asymmetry, Investor Disagreement

JEL Classification: D53, D82, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bamber, Linda Smith and Barron, Orie E. and Stevens, Douglas E., Trading Volume Around Earnings Announcements and Other Financial Reports: Theory, Research Design, Empirical Evidence, and Directions for Future Research (February 27, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1473439 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1473439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
157 References
J Abarbanell , W Lanen , R Verrecchia
Analysts' forecasts as proxies for investor beliefs in empirical research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price variability
Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1988
Crossref
A Ahmed , R Schneible , D Stevens
Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Ahmed , R Schneible
The impact of Regulation Fair Disclosure on investors' prior Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,964
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,250
RANK
19,168
38 Citations
157 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Underreacts to Cash-Flow News? Evidence from Trading between Individuals and Institutions

By Randolph B. Cohen, Paul A. Gompers, ...

Individual Investor Sentiment and Stock Returns

By Ron Kaniel, Gideon Saar, ...

Individual Investor Trading and Stock Returns

By Ron Kaniel, Gideon Saar, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies