Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contextual Algorithm for Decision of Fuzzy Estimation Problems with Network-Like Structure of Criteria on the Basis of Fuzzy Measures Sugeno

11 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2009

Sergey Sveshnikov

Consulting Group INEX-FT

Viktor Bocharnikov

Independent

Date Written: September 1, 2007

Abstract

In this article the algorithm for the decision of alternatives' estimation problems for following conditions is considered. Values of alternative's characteristics (properties) are fuzzy. They are formalized as fuzzy sets. The estimation criteria structure is network-like and is formalized as the oriented graph with one source and many drains. The alternative's estimation result is calculated in criterion-source. Connections between criteria are formalized by fuzzy measures Sugeno. Upper-level criteria are considered as contexts for lower-level criteria. Fuzzy integrals Sugeno or Choquet are used as aggregation operator. In article also the properties of fuzzy measure and fuzzy integrals (Sugeno and Choquet) are analyzed. Properties of fuzzy measure and integrals are comparing with properties of other mathematical tools. As example the car's estimation problem is presented.

Keywords: fuzzy measure, Sugeno, fuzzy integral, Sugeno and Choquet, alternatives estimation, criteria structure

Suggested Citation:

Sveshnikov, Sergey and Bocharnikov, Viktor, Contextual Algorithm for Decision of Fuzzy Estimation Problems with Network-Like Structure of Criteria on the Basis of Fuzzy Measures Sugeno (September 1, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1474669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1474669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
M Ceberio , F Modave
An Interval-valued, 2-additive Choquet Integral for Multicriteria Decision Making
10th Conf. on Information Processing and Management of Uncertainty in Knowledge-based Systems (IPMU) Posted: 2004-07
G Choquet
Denguir-Rekik Afef, Montmain Jacky, Mauris Gilles, 2006. A fuzzy-valued Choquetintegral-based multi-criteria decision-making support for marketing and benchmarking activities in e-commerce organizations
Annales de l'Institut Fourier , volume 5 Posted: 1953-06-19
Fuzzy Sets in Models of Control and Artificial Intelligence , volume 312 Posted: 1986
M Grabisch
Modelling data by the Choquet integral
Information Fusion in Data Mining, Physica Verlag , p. 135 - 148 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,556
RANK
697,608
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies