Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Algorithm of Arithmetical Operations with Fuzzy Numerical Data

10 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2009

Viktor Bocharnikov

Independent

Sergey Sveshnikov

Consulting Group INEX-FT

Date Written: September 1, 2007

Abstract

In this article the theoretical generalization for representation of arithmetic operations with fuzzy numbers is considered. Fuzzy numbers are generalized by means of fuzzy measures. On the basis of this generalization the new algorithm of fuzzy arithmetic which uses a principle of entropy maximum is created. As example, the summation of two fuzzy numbers is considered. The algorithm is realized in the software "Fuzzy for Microsoft Excel".

Keywords: fuzzy measure (Sugeno), fuzzy integral (Sugeno), fuzzy numbers, arithmetical operations, principle of entropy maximum

Suggested Citation:

Bocharnikov, Viktor and Sveshnikov, Sergey, Algorithm of Arithmetical Operations with Fuzzy Numerical Data (September 1, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1474683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1474683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
D Dubois , H Prade
Operations on fuzzy numbers
Internat. J. Systems Sci , volume 9 , p. 613 - 626 Posted: 1978
Crossref
T Allahviranloo , M Firozja
Trapezoidal approximation of fuzzy numbers, Fuzzy Sets and Systems , volume 158 , p. 755 - 756 Posted: 2007
Przemysław Grzegorzewski , Edyta Mrуwka
Trapezoidal approximations of fuzzy numbers -revisited, Fuzzy Sets and Systems , volume 158 , p. 757 - 768 Posted: 2007
Changjiu Zhou
Fuzzy-arithmetic-based Lyapunov synthesis in the design of stable fuzzy controllers: a computing-with-words approach
Appl. Math. Comput. Sci , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 411 - 421 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,677
RANK
382,931
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies