Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leadership and Control System Design

41 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2009

Margaret A. Abernethy

University of Melbourne, Department of Accounting

Jan Bouwens

Amsterdam Business School

Laurence van Lent

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management

Date Written: September 30, 2009

Abstract

Little attention has been given to the role of leadership characteristics in the organization design literature despite significant evidence of its importance in explaining firm behavior. This study develops and tests a model to assess the effects of leadership style on three control choices that are considered integral elements of a firm’s management control system; namely the delegation choice, the use of planning and control systems and the performance measurement system. Our results, based on data collected from 128 profit center managers, indicate that leadership style is a significant predictor of senior management’s use of the planning and control system and their use of performance measurement system for rewarding lower level managers. After controlling for operating contextual factors (namely, subunit interdependencies and knowledge asymmetries) we find no effect of leadership style on delegation choices but do find that leadership style influences the use of planning and control systems as predicted.

Keywords: leadership style, empowerment, communication, execution, control system use, organization design

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Abernethy, Margaret A. and Bouwens, Jan and van Lent, Laurence, Leadership and Control System Design (September 30, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1476788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1476788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 70 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
Management control systems in research and development organizations: The role of accounting, behavior and personnel controls
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 233 - 281 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
The role of budgets in organizations facing strategic change: an exploratory study
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 189 - 205 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control system design
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 241 - 58 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,000
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,325
RANK
52,354
9 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of Leadership Style on the Information Receivers’ Reaction to Management Accounting Change

By E.p. Jansen

How Much Influence Do Business Unit Management Accountants Get From Their Business Unit Managers? An Empirical Investigation

By J.a. Ten Rouwelaar

Managing Corruption: How Top Management's Leadership Style and Control Systems Can Reduce Corruption

By Tobias Karmann

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies