Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Tax Research

138 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2009 Last revised: 28 Jul 2010

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Shane Heitzman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: July 25, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, we present a review of tax research. We survey four main areas of the literature: 1) the informational role of income tax expense reported for financial accounting, 2) corporate tax avoidance, 3) corporate decision-making including investment, capital structure, and organizational form, and 4) taxes and asset pricing. We summarize the research areas and questions examined to date and what we have learned or not learned from the work completed thus far. In addition, we provide our opinion as to the interesting and important issues for future research.

Keywords: taxes, corporate finance, investment, asset pricing, financial reporting, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G30, H25, K34, L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Heitzman, Shane, A Review of Tax Research (July 25, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1476561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1476561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
467 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
F Allen , R Michaely
Payout policy
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12,815
ABSTRACT VIEWS
45,684
RANK
844
177 Citations
467 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies