Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risky Debt, Mixed-Attribute Accounting, and the Identification of Conditional Conservatism

60 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2009

William H. Beaver

Stanford University

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: September 23, 2009

Abstract

We examine the implications of the presence of risky debt-which embeds an economic written put option on the firm (Merton 1974)-and mixed-attribute accounting for assets versus debt-an accounting option exercisable by accounting standard setters and/or firms preparing financial statements-for the empirical identification of conditional conservatism as asymmetry. We first conduct analytical and simulation analyses to develop a rich set of testable hypotheses about the effects of these two options on asymmetry. We then conduct archival empirical analysis to show that researchers can control for the riskiness of debt using measures of economic leverage, equity return volatility, and debt credit ratings. In this analysis we control for a measure of the percentage of economic assets that are recognized for accounting purposes and so are potentially subject to conditional conservatism. We find that, after controlling for declines in economic leverage and the asset recognition percentage over time, the upward trend in asymmetry is stronger and more monotonic than is the upward trend in the asymmetry for the overall sample that Basu (1997) documents.

Keywords: risky debt, mixed-attribute accounting, conditional conservatism, asymmetry

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Beaver, William H. and Ryan, Stephen G., Risky Debt, Mixed-Attribute Accounting, and the Identification of Conditional Conservatism (September 23, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1477528 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1477528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Ray Ball , S.P. Kothari , Valeri V. Nikolaev
Econometrics of the Basu Asymmetric Timeliness Coefficient and Accounting Conservatism
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 09-16 Pages: 36 Posted: 13 Jul 2007 Last revised: 19 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in U.K. private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss Recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Barth , L Hodder , S Stubben
Fair value accounting for liabilities and own credit risk
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 629 - 664 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
553
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,349
RANK
114,562
20 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies