Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Variables and Bankruptcy Risk for Non-Listed Firms

49 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2009 Last revised: 10 Sep 2012

Bengt Pramborg

Swedish Export Credit Corporation

Date Written: June 10, 2012

Abstract

In this paper I investigate the relation between accounting based variables and bankruptcy risk, using information available for non-listed firms. I use a large sample of firms and find that many of the variables suggested earlier in the literature seem to provide little explanatory power. Further, I find that industry classification does not add much explanatory power of bankruptcy risk not captured by other variables. I suggest a seven-factor model including accounting variables and firm age which performs well out-of-sample. The results suggest that estimated coefficients are unstable, but that the variables are consistently strong determinants of bankruptcy risk.

Keywords: Bankruptcy Risk, Hazard Models, Cox Regressions, Private Firms

JEL Classification: G33, M41, C41

Suggested Citation:

Pramborg, Bengt, Accounting Variables and Bankruptcy Risk for Non-Listed Firms (June 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1482998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1482998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis, and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman
Predicting Financial Distress of Companies: Revisiting the Zscore and ZETA R Models Posted: 2000
Crossref
E I Altman , Sabato
Modelling Credit Risk for SMEs: Evidence from the U.S. Market
Abacus , volume 43 , p. 332 - 357 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W H Beaver
Financial Ratios as Predictors of Failure
Selected Studies , volume 4 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1966
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,136
RANK
229,982
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Default Risk in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou and Yuhang Xing

News Related to Future GDP Growth as a Risk Factor in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

News Related to Future GDP Growth as Risk Factors in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies