Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Cash Flow on Investment: An Empirical Test of the Balance Sheet Channel

Sveriges Riksbank Research Paper Series No. 59

Sveriges Riksbank Working Paper Series No. 228

38 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2009

Ola Melander

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper tests the balance sheet theory, where the status of balance sheets affects the economy's response to monetary and other shocks. The theory predicts a positive effect of cash flow on investment, given fundamental determinants of investment. I use an empirical method developed by Gilchrist and Himmelberg (1995, 1999), which has previously only been used to study very large, publicly traded firms. In contrast, this paper uses a large Swedish data set with many smaller firms, where balance sheet effects are likely to be especially important. I find that a firm's cash flow has a positive impact on its investment, controlling for any information in cash flow about investment opportunities. As predicted by the balance sheet channel, the estimated effect of cash flow on investment is especially large for firms which, a priori, are more likely to be financially constrained (low-dividend, small and non-group firms). Moreover, the investment-cash flow sensitivity is significantly larger and more persistent during the first half of the sample period, which includes a severe banking crisis and recession, than during the second half.

Keywords: financial frictions, balance sheet channel, financial accelerator, investment, cash flow

JEL Classification: C33, E22, E44, E55

Suggested Citation:

Melander, Ola, The Effect of Cash Flow on Investment: An Empirical Test of the Balance Sheet Channel (April 1, 2009). Sveriges Riksbank Research Paper Series No. 59, Sveriges Riksbank Working Paper Series No. 228, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1483016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1483016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Arellano , O Bover
Another Look at the Instrumental Variable Estimation of Error-Components Models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
Crossref
B S Bernanke , M Gertler , S G Gilchrist
The Financial Accelerator in a Quantitative Business Cycle Framework
Handbook of Macroeconomics , p. 1341 - 1393 Posted: 1999
Crossref
O J Blanchard , C Rhee , L H Summers
The Stock Market, Pro…t, and Investment , volume 108 , p. 115 - 136 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Bond , C Meghir
Dynamic Investment Models and the Firm's Financial Policy
Review of Economic Studies , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 197 - 222 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
556
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,852
RANK
113,793
4 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Rent-sharing, Holdup, and Wages: Evidence from Matched Panel Data

By David Card, Francesco Devicienti, ...

Rent-Sharing, Hold-Up, and Wages: Evidence from Matched Panel Data

By David Card, Francesco Devicienti, ...

Local Economic Development, Agglomeration Economies, and the Big Push: 100 Years of Evidence from the Tennessee Valley Authority

By Patrick Kline and Enrico Moretti

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies