Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature

150 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2009 Last revised: 13 Aug 2010

Anne Beyer

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Daniel A. Cohen

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Thomas Z. Lys

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Beverly R. Walther

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: July 26, 2010

Abstract

The corporate information environment develops endogenously as a consequence of information asymmetries and agency problems between investors, entrepreneurs, and managers. We provide a framework for analyzing the three main decisions that shape the corporate information environment in a capital markets setting: (1) managers’ voluntary reporting and disclosure decisions, (2) reporting and disclosures mandated by regulators, and (3) reporting decisions by third-party intermediaries (analysts). We review current research on disclosure regulation, information intermediaries, and the determinants and economic consequences of corporate disclosure and financial reporting decisions. We conclude that in the last ten years, research has generated a number of useful insights. Despite this progress, we call for researchers to consider interdependencies between the various decisions that shape the corporate information environment and highlight changes in the economic financial environment that raise new and interesting issues for researchers to address.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Information Environment, Disclosure, Analyst Forecasts

JEL Classification: D80, G12, G14, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Beyer, Anne and Cohen, Daniel A. and Lys, Thomas Z. and Walther, Beverly R., The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature (July 26, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1483227 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1483227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
35,796
RANK
2,953
629 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies