Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Propensity Score Matching in Accounting Research and Rosenbaum Bounds Analysis for Confounding Variables

59 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2009 Last revised: 6 Jul 2012

Michael J. Peel

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Gerry Makepeace

Cardiff University; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Date Written: October 8, 2009

Abstract

Propensity score (PS) matching is becoming an increasingly popular method of estimating treatment effects. However, a major limitation relative to two-step Heckman procedures is that it does not control for potential unobserved selection bias. This paper employs a new method - Rosenbaum bounds - which enables researchers to assess the robustness of their PS matched estimates against the effects of potential unobserved ‘confounding’ variables. We provide an evaluation of PS matching and a comprehensive exposition of the Rosenbaum method and illustrate its properties and parameters with reference to auditor premiums for the standard dichotomy of big 4 versus non-big 4 auditors, together with new evidence relating to big 4 versus the next four largest (mid-tier) auditors, and the latter versus smaller auditors. Inter alia, our findings indicate that hidden bias would have to be large and influential in order to account for the big 4 premium generally, but only a comparatively small confounding unobserved covariate is required to negate the premium relative to leading mid-tier auditors. The Rosenbaum method also provided consistent estimates when covariates were omitted which were known ex ante to have either a large or small impact on the outcome. We conclude that the Rosenbaum technique provides researchers with a valuable tool to assess the sensitivity of causal inferences under bounded uncertainty and one which makes explicit the degree of hidden bias required to neutralise treatment effects estimated with the method of PS matching.

An extended version of this paper, including simultaneous multi-sample PSM and quantile regression estimates, was published in Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 39(5) & (6), 2012; entitled: Differential Audit Quality, Propensity Score Matching and Rosenbaum Bounds for Confounding Variables.

Keywords: Rosenbaum bounds, propensity score matching, hidden bias, treatment effects, auditor premiums

JEL Classification: C14, C21, M41, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Peel, Michael J. and Makepeace, Gerald H, Propensity Score Matching in Accounting Research and Rosenbaum Bounds Analysis for Confounding Variables (October 8, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1485734 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1485734
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
S Ahn , M D Walker
Corporate Governance and the Spinoff Decision
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 76 - 93 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Chris S. Armstrong , Christopher D. Ittner , David F. Larcker
Economic Characteristics, Corporate Governance, and the Influence of Compensation Consultants on Executive Pay Levels
Rock Center for Corporate Governance Working Paper No. 15, Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 17, No. 2, June 2012 Pages: 62 Posted: 15 Jun 2008 Last revised: 12 Sep 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Armstrong , Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities Posted: 2009
Crossref
R P Beatty
The Economic Determinants of Auditor Compensation in the Initial Public Offerings Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 294 - 302 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Hu Dan Semba , Ryo Kato
Does Big N matter for audit quality? Evidence from Japan
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 2 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Lilian H. Chan , Kevin C. W. Chen , Tai Yuan Chen , Yangxin Yu
Substitution between Real and Accruals-Based Earnings Management after Voluntary Adoption of Compensation Clawback Provisions
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 147 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Elisabeta Pana , Sascha Vitzthum , David Mitchell Willis
The Impact of Internet-Based Services on Credit Unions: A Propensity Score Matching Approach
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming · 37 Pages · Posted: 10 Jul 2013 · Last revised: 23 Jul 2014 · Downloads: 126
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tara Shankar Shaw , Sridhar Telidevara
Does food subsidy affect household nutrition?
International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy , volume 34 , issue 1/2 , p. 107 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,530
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,616
RANK
28,175
5 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Self-Selection of Auditors and Audit Pricing in Private Firms

By Paul K. Chaney, Debra C. Jeter, ...

Was Arthur Andersen Different? An Empirical Examination of Major Accounting Firms' Audits of Large Clients

By Theodore Eisenberg (deceased) and Jonathan R. Macey

Auditor Reputation, Auditor Independence and the Stock Market Reaction to Andersen's Clients

By Srinivasan Krishnamurthy, Jian Zhou, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies