Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can an Accounting-Based Duration Model Effectively Measure Interest Rate Sensitivity?

62 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2009

Gregory E Sierra

Southern Illinois University Edwardsville

Date Written: October 14, 2009

Abstract

I examine whether a duration transformation of financial accounting information adequately captures interest rate sensitivity in financial institutions. First, I calculate an ex-ante measure of interest rate sensitivity in complex banking institutions based upon a model developed by bank supervisors at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors; the duration measure is a combination of financial accounting information and duration proxies. Second, I test for an association between this ex-ante measure of interest rate sensitivity and both accounting and capital market ex-post measures of interest rate sensitivity. The results show a predictable relationship between ex-ante modeled interest rate sensitivity and banks’ ex-post accounting performance and stock returns given observed changes in market interest rates. I conclude that an interest rate sensitivity model based upon a combination of financial accounting information and duration proxies can be used to predict interest rate sensitivity in complex banks, including publicly-traded bank holding companies. The issue is important because interest rate risk management is integral to financial institutions, and its reliable measurement using publicly-available accounting data is relevant to bank managers, researchers, market participants, and regulators.

Keywords: banks, accounting, accounting, financial risk, financial risk management

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Sierra, Gregory E., Can an Accounting-Based Duration Model Effectively Measure Interest Rate Sensitivity? (October 14, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1488884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1488884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
S Akella , S I Greenbuam
Innovations in interest rates, duration transformation, and bank stock returns
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking , volume 24 , p. 27 - 42 Posted: 1992-02
Crossref
Wayne D Angell
Statements to Congress
Federal Reserve Bulletin , p. 911 - 917 Posted: 1990-11
Anne Beatty
Assessing the use of derivatives as part of a risk-management strategy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 353 - 357 Posted: 1999
Crossref
V L Bernard
Unanticipated inflation and the value of the firm
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 15 , p. 285 - 321 Posted: 1986-03
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,205
RANK
251,747
6 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Does the Federal Reserve's Economic Value Model Tell Us About Interest Rate Risk at U.S. Community Banks?

By Gregory E Sierra and Timothy J. Yeager

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies