Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Revisions to SFAS No. 5 Needed?

26 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2009

Rosemond Desir

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Kirsten Fanning

DePaul University

Ray J. Pfeiffer

Texas Christian University - Neeley School of Business

Date Written: October 14, 2009

Abstract

In the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB) project, “Disclosure of Certain Loss Contingencies,” a central issue underlying the debate is whether existing implementation of FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 450-20 (previously Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5) provides sufficient and timely information to financial statement users. In undertaking this project, the FASB heard from a wide array of constituents about their impressions of the quality of information being generated about litigation-related loss contingencies. The Exposure Draft (“Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards: Disclosure of Certain Loss Contingencies”, FASB, June 5, 2008) explains that constituents’ assertions of inadequate disclosures are the primary motive underlying the FASB’s re-examination of this issue (see, for example, page v of the Exposure Draft). However, at the time of the Exposure Draft, there was very little actual data about the extent of the alleged problem. This manuscript presents the results of a study undertaken to provide such data.

For a sample of litigation-related losses, we document the characteristics of the disclosures that firms made prior to the reporting of the unfavorable outcome. We find a surprisingly large incidence of non-disclosure of contingent losses that cannot be readily explained. Moreover, even for instances where there is disclosure, we find a relatively high frequency of cases where firms do not provide estimates of expected losses, presumably under the permitted exception for cases where firms claim to be unable to estimate the magnitude of expected loss. On the other hand, we find that firms relatively frequently provide disclosure items called for in the FASB’s Exposure Draft but not yet required, consistent with the conjecture that at least some of these items are presently being demanded by users.

Our study was part of the materials provided by the FASB Staff to the Board in their re-deliberations of this issue. We believe it serves as an example of how academic research can contribute ex ante to policy-making, specifically by indentifying and verifying assumptions upon which standard-setting projects and judgments are based.

Keywords: loss contingency, SFAS No. 5, disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Desir, Rosemond and Fanning, Kirsten and Pfeiffer, Ray J., Are Revisions to SFAS No. 5 Needed? (October 14, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1488992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1488992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Commission on Auditors' Responsibilities Posted: 1978
Crossref
Private Companies Practice Section Reporter Posted: 1987-01
Robert Braun , Martin
Concerning Accounting for Uncertainties Posted: 1980
Robert D Fesler , J Larry Hagler
Litigation Disclosures under SFAS No. 5: A Study of Actual Cases
Accounting Horizons , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 10 - 20 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,890
RANK
199,490
3 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Auditor Industry Specialization and Earnings Quality

By Steven Balsam, Jagan Krishnan, ...

Auditor Industry Specialization and Client Disclosure Quality

By Kimberly Dunn, Brian W. Mayhew, ...

Audit Firm Industry Specialization as a Differentiation Strategy: Evidence from Fees Charged to Firms Going Public

By Brian W. Mayhew and Michael S. Wilkins

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies