Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Accountability: A Stakeholder-Agent Perspective

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. VIII, Nos. 3 & 4, pp. 7-19, July & October 2009

Posted: 18 Oct 2009

Amit K. Mallik

The University of Burdwan

Susanta Mitra

Khandra College

Date Written: October 15, 2009

Abstract

This paper is an effort at understanding the two contrary frameworks of accounting investigations in the sense of theoretical and philosophical underpinnings - the traditional agency view of accounting where the objective function is to maximize shareholders’ wealth, subject to the constraint of managerial egoism and a petty recognition to other corporate actors; and the newly emerged stakeholder view resulting out of an interdisciplinary research tradition, with the aim of satisfying a broad range of stakeholders, including the shareholders and their agent -managers, in terms of a contribution-inducement exchange relationship. Though on the ground of theoretical reasoning, the two frameworks are mutually exclusive to each other, nevertheless, there is a growing perception in contemporary accounting research that demonstrates the likelihood of an alternative framework of analysis by exploring the possibilities in the sense of a convergence of the two converse views. A methodical scrutiny of the two contrary positions has been made in the light of their commonalities and divergences and an attempt has been made to corroborate with the growing perception of converging the two by subsuming the agency approach into a broader stakeholder model.

Suggested Citation:

Mallik, Amit K. and Mitra, Susanta, Accounting and Accountability: A Stakeholder-Agent Perspective (October 15, 2009). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. VIII, Nos. 3 & 4, pp. 7-19, July & October 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1489380
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies