Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of the Relationship of Corporate Social Performance and Financial Performance: A Conceptual Framework

Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2009

Hasan Fauzi

Sebelas Maret University

Date Written: October 16, 2009

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to investigate relationship between CSP and CFP using contingency perspective derived from the strategic management domain. The investigation will be done using lens of slack resource and good management theory. This study is expected to provide a new insight on the link between corporate social performance and corporate financial performance using contingency perspective as suggested in the strategic management and accounting literature, an area has not been examined in the prior studies. The result of this study can resolve the existing conflict in the literatures by developing an integrated model of the link between CSP and CFP and the notion of corporate performance which, in strategic management, is highly affected by four factors: business environment, strategy, organization structure, and control system. The model will explain in what condition the relationship of CSP and CFP is valid.

Keywords: corporate social performance, corporate financial performance, slack resource theory, good management theory, contingency theory, and moderating effect

JEL Classification: M19, M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fauzi, Hasan, The Determinants of the Relationship of Corporate Social Performance and Financial Performance: A Conceptual Framework (October 16, 2009). Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1489824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
119 References
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
The role of budgets in organizations facing strategic change: an exploratory study Posted: 1999
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L V Lent
Determinants of Control System Design in Divisionalized Firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004-07
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens
Determinants of Accounting Innovation Implementation
Abacus , issue 3 Posted: 2005
Crossref
I Ali , Ali , J H
The Effects of the Interaction of Technology, Structure, and Organizational Climate on Job Satisfaction
Sunway Academic Journal , issue 2 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
777
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,751
RANK
73,926
1 Citations
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Mapping Management Accounting: Graphics and Guidelines for Theory-Consistent Empirical Research

By Joan L. Luft and Michael D. Shields

An Empirical Analysis of the Levers of Control Framework

By Sally K. Widener

The Effects of Monetary Incentives on Worker Learning and Performance in an Assembly Task

By Charles D. Bailey, Lawrence D. Brown, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies