Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Control Systems and Contextual Variables in the Hospitality Industry

33 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2009

Hasan Fauzi

Sebelas Maret University

Mostaq M. Hussain

UNBSJ

Lois S. Mahoney

Eastern Michigan University

Date Written: October 16, 2009

Abstract

Purpose – The paper examined management control systems (MCS) in Indonesian hospitality sector. This study examines the impact of six contextual factors at one time to determine the importance of each factor on the design of MCS.

Design/methodology/approach - The paper is based upon data collected through a survey sent to “star” hotels in Central Java, Indonesia. Using Chenhall (2003) design, a regression equation is run to examine the relationship between MCS and the contextual variables of environment, technology, structure, size, strategy and culture.

Findings - The paper finds that higher levels of the contextual variables of technology, structure, and culture are related to more sophisticated MCS while size is related to more traditional MCS.

Research limitations/implications - These findings are related to the hospitality industry in Indonesia. Future research could examine different settings (i.e. country, industry, etc) and investigate the effect of each contextual variable on the relationships between MCS and firm performance.

Originality/value - The present study extends the scope of MCS system in accounting literature by testing Chenhall (2003) works on the relationship between contextual variables and MCS. It attempts to fill the gap in contingency-based studies that have previously focused on one aspect of contingency by considering six contextual factors. Furthermore, this paper also contributes to a fuller understanding of MCS practices in Indonesia and the hospitality industry and helps management in determining its most effective design.

Keywords: Hospitality management, Management Control Systems, Indonesia, Contextual

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fauzi, Hasan and Hussain, Mostaq M. and Mahoney, Lois S., Management Control Systems and Contextual Variables in the Hospitality Industry (October 16, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1489432 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1489432
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The role of professional control in the management of complex organizations
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 1995
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
The relationship between organization structure and management control in hospitals: an elaboration and test of Mintzberg's professional bureaucracy model
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 18 - 33 Posted: 1990
Crossref
J W Alexander , W A Randolf
The fit between technology and structure as predictor of performance in nursing subunits
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 844 - 859 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
886
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,870
RANK
61,863
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Influencing Contingencies on Management Accounting Practices in Estonian Manufacturing Companies

By Toomas Haldma and Kertu Laats

Management Accounting Practices in the British Food and Drinks Industry

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

The Impact of Firm Characteristics on Management Accounting Practices: A UK-Based Empirical Analysis

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies