Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social and Financial Performance: Empirical Evidence from American Companies

Globsyn Management Journal, Forthcoming

19 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2009

Hasan Fauzi

Sebelas Maret University

Date Written: October 15, 2009

Abstract

The objective of this study is to address the issue of the relationship between corporate social and financial performance by moderating company size and financial leverage with the use of type of industry as control variable. The Corporate social performance (CSP/CSR) is measured using seven item developed initially by Michael Jantzi Research Associate, Inc and used by Mahoney and Robert (2007). To attain main research objective, the measure of CSP composite is used. Furthermore, company size, financial leverage, and type of industry are measured by total asset, degree of internal and external source to finance the company’s assets, and dummy variable (0 for non manufacture and 1 for manufacture), respectively. A moderated multiple regression model is used in the present study. Four models are developed in the study based on the theory of slack resource and good management. The result of the present study is that corporate social performance (CSP/CSR) has no effect on corporate financial performance (CFP) under slack resource and good management theory it is also shown that only financial leverage could moderate the interaction between CSP/CSR and financial performance (CSP). However, based on the overall analysis, it may be reasonable to come to conclusion that the relationship between CSP and financial performance is spurious as Orlitzki (2000) concluded.

Keywords: Corporate social performance, corporate social responsibility, financial performance, good management theory, stakeholder, and slack resource theory

JEL Classification: M19, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fauzi, Hasan, Corporate Social and Financial Performance: Empirical Evidence from American Companies (October 15, 2009). Globsyn Management Journal, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1489494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
as unit analysis containing the CSR dimension as classified by
V Beattie , B Mcinnes , S Fearnley
Narrative reporting by listed UK companies: a comparative within-sector topic analysis Posted: 2002
L K Dean
The Chicken and The Egg Revisited: Ties Between Corporate Social Performance and the Financial Bottom Line
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 82 Posted: 1997
Crossref
John Elkington
Towards the sustainable corporation: Win-win-win business strategies for Sustainable Corporation:Win-Win-Win Business Strategies for Sustainable Development
California Management Review , volume 36 , issue 2 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,647
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,308
RANK
11,829
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Corporate Social Performance and Corporate Financial Performance Debate: Twenty-Five Years of Incomparable Research

By Jennifer Griffin and John F. Mahon

Stakeholder Influence Capacity and the Variability of Financial Returns to Corporate Social Responsibility

By Michael L. Barnett

Opportunity Platforms and Safety Nets: Corporate Citizenship and Reputational Risk

By Charles J. Fombrun, Naomi A. Gardberg, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies