Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Performance of Indonesian State-Owned and Private Companies

HANDBOOK OF BUSINESS PRACTICES AND GROWTH IN EMERGING MARKETS, World Scientific, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2009

Hasan Fauzi

Sebelas Maret University

Mostaq M. Hussain

UNBSJ

Azhar Abdul Rahman

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Adnan A. Priyanto

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October, 16 2009

Abstract

The objectives of this study are to analyze the difference of corporate social performance between State-owned and private companies in Indonesia, and also to analyze the correlation between the corporate social performance (CSP) and the corporate financial performance by using company size, and institutional ownership as control variables. The population of this study is Indonesian state owned and private companies in the year of 2001-2004. Purposive sampling was used in this study, and final samples are 461 companies. The CSP or CSR (Corporate social responsibility) score is measured by content analysis of corporate annual report using seven item developed by Michael Research Jantzi Research Associate, Inc. The data is tested by independent t-test to determine the mean difference and by using partial correlation test to know the correlation between the corporate social performance and financial performance. The results of this study are that there is no significant difference mean of corporate social performance between state-owned and private owned companies in Indonesia. In addition, the correlation test indicates that there is no association between corporation social performance and financial performance both in SOCs and POCs.

Keywords: Corporate Social Performance, State-owned company, Private-owned Company, Indonesian

JEL Classification: M19, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fauzi, Hasan and Hussain, Mostaq M. and Abdul Rahman, Azhar and Priyanto, Adnan A., Corporate Social Performance of Indonesian State-Owned and Private Companies (October, 16 2009). HANDBOOK OF BUSINESS PRACTICES AND GROWTH IN EMERGING MARKETS, World Scientific, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1489772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
T Abeng
Reformasi BUMN. Paper presented at The Seminar BUMN Executives Club Posted: 2004
H A Al-Khadash
The Accounting Disclosure of Social and Environmental Activities A Comparative Study for the Industrial Jordanian Shareholding Companies
Abhath AlYarmouk Journal: Humanities and Social Sciences Posted: 2003
J C Anderson , A W Frankle
Voluntary Social Reporting: An Iso Beta Portfolio Analysis
The Accounting Review , issue 3 Posted: 1980
K E Aupperle , A B Carroll , A D Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and Profitability
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 2 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,723
RANK
104,934
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Link between Corporate Social Performance and Financial Performance: Evidence from Indonesian Companies

By Hasan Fauzi, Lois S. Mahoney, ...

The Relationship of CSR and Financial Performance: New Evidence from Indonesian Companies

By Hasan Fauzi and Kamil Idris

The Effect of Contextual Variables in the Relationship Between CSR and CFP: Evidence from Indonesian Companies

By Hasan Fauzi and Kamil Idris

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies