Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measures of the Timeliness of Earnings

Australian Accounting Review, Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2009 Last revised: 2 Jul 2011

Philip R. Brown

UWA Business School, M250; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Glen Dobbie

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: June 30, 2011

Abstract

We explore relationships among four measures of ‘timeliness’ in the financial accounting research literature: the Ball and Brown (1968) measure; Dyer and McHugh’s (1975) reporting lag; the Khan and Watts (2009) measure; and the Beekes and Brown (2006) measure. There are good reasons why the measures might be related and also why they might differ. Thus we examine the extent to which they are empirically related, using data for a sample of Australian companies over the period 1994-2005. Overall, we find the four measures share a common label, ‘timeliness’, but not much else.

Keywords: Timeliness, Price Discovery, Conservatism

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Philip R. and Dobbie, Glen and Jackson, Andrew B., Measures of the Timeliness of Earnings (June 30, 2011). Australian Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1490162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
SAC 3 Qualitative Characteristics of Financial Information
Australian Accounting Research Foundation Posted: 1990
H Balkrishna , J J Coulton , S L Taylor
Accounting Losses and Earnings Conservatism: Evidence from Australian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
Accounting and Finance , volume 47 , p. 381 - 400 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 78 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,291
RANK
157,252
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies