Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Reporting (CSR) in Emerging Economies: A Review and Future Direction

Research in Accounting in Emerging Economies, Forthcoming

Posted: 25 Oct 2009

Ataur Belal

Aston University

Mahmood Momin

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: October 18, 2009

Abstract

Purpose - Previous reviews of CSR literature have tended to focus on developed economies. The aim of this study is to extend reviews of CSR literature to emerging economies.

Design/methodology/approach - A desk based research method, using a classification framework of three categories.

Findings - Most CSR studies in emerging economies have concentrated on the Asia-Pacific and African regions, and are descriptive in nature, used content analysis methods and measured the extent and volume of disclosures contained within the annual reports. Such studies provide indirect explanation of the reasons behind CSR adoption but of late, a handful of studies have started to probe managerial motivations behind CSR directly via in depth interviews finding that CSR agendas in emerging economies are largely driven by external forces, viz. pressures from parent companies, international market and international agencies.

Originality/value - This is the first review and analysis of CSR studies from the emerging economy perspective. Following this analysis the authors have identified some important future research questions.

Keywords: Corporate Social Reporting (CSR), social accounting standards/codes, emerging economies

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Belal, Ataur and Momin, Mahmood, Corporate Social Reporting (CSR) in Emerging Economies: A Review and Future Direction (October 18, 2009). Research in Accounting in Emerging Economies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1490742
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,433
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies