Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Value Evaluation with Ohlson Model: An Empirical Analysis of ATX Indexed Companies in Vienna Stock Exchange

10 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2009

Ali Osman Kusakci

International University of Sarajevo (IUS)

Date Written: October 20, 2009

Abstract

Scholars of finance and accounting propose several models on equity valuation. One of these models, namely Ohlson Model, relates market value with accounting numbers and thereby, offers an opportunity of equity valuation based on accounting data. This paper aims to weight the explanatory power of the Ohlson Model on determination of market value of ATX (Austrian Traded Index) companies. For this purpose, the model parameters are estimated on the basis of past data and its precision is weighted with dataset of validation period. Although the differences between estimated market value and value calculated based on stock price are not statistically significant, the model is limited mainly with the abnormal consequences of the recent financial crisis.

Keywords: Ohlson Model, ATX, linear information dynamic, market value, equity valuation

Suggested Citation:

Kusakci, Ali Osman, Market Value Evaluation with Ohlson Model: An Empirical Analysis of ATX Indexed Companies in Vienna Stock Exchange (October 20, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1491496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1491496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
César Cupertino , Medeiros , Paulo Lustosa , B Roberto
The Ohlson Model of Evaluation of Companies: Tutorial for Use
Brazilian Business Review , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Patricia M Dechow , Amy P Hutton , Richard G Sloan
An Empirical Assessment of the Residual Income Valuation Model
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Gerald A Feltham , James A Ohlson
Valuation and Clean Surplus Accounting for Operating and Financial Activities
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 689 - 731 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Alan Gregory , Walid Saleh , Jon P Tucker , A Uk
Test of an Inflation-Adjusted Ohlson Model
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 32 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 487 - 534 Posted: 2005-04
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,536
RANK
100,801
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies