Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence of Conditional Conservatism: Fact or Artifact?

42 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2009

Panos N. Patatoukas

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Jacob K. Thomas

Yale School of Management

Date Written: October 5, 2009

Abstract

The differential timeliness measure proposed in Basu (1997), which estimates the fraction of observed bad news reported in contemporaneous earnings minus the corresponding fraction for good news, has been used widely to study conditional accounting conservatism. Timeliness is measured as the slope from a regression of earnings, scaled by lagged price, on returns. We find that differential timeliness estimates are biased by two empirical regularities related to lagged price, the deflator in the timeliness regressions: it is negatively related to a) the variance of returns, and b) the probability of a loss, and the magnitude of price-deflated losses. Even though these regularities are unrelated to conditional conservatism, their effects are substantial and pervasive. Also, prior findings regarding time-series and cross-sectional variation in differential timeliness are confounded by corresponding variation in these regularities.

Keywords: conservatism, asymmetric timeliness, losses, scaling by share price

JEL Classification: M41, G10

Suggested Citation:

Patatoukas, Panos N. and Thomas, Jacob, Evidence of Conditional Conservatism: Fact or Artifact? (October 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1492120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1492120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Ray Ball , S.P. Kothari , Valeri V. Nikolaev
Econometrics of the Basu Asymmetric Timeliness Coefficient and Accounting Conservatism
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 09-16 Pages: 36 Posted: 13 Jul 2007 Last revised: 19 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Basu
Conservatism and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings Posted: 1995
Load more
8 Citations
Jeffrey L. Callen , Dan Segal
An Analytical and Empirical Measure of the Degree of Conditional Conservatism
44 Pages · Posted: 27 Aug 2009 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dan Givoly , Carla K. Hayn , Sharon P. Katz
Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 195 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Jorge A. Romero , Martin Freedman , Neale G. O'Connor
The impact of Environmental Protection Agency penalties on financial performance
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 27 , issue 8 , p. 1733 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Patricia Dechow , Weili Ge , Catherine Schrand
Understanding earnings quality: A review of the proxies, their determinants and their consequences
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 344 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
447
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,651
RANK
148,252
8 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies