Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Economic Measures: An Integrated Theory of Capital Budgeting

48 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2009 Last revised: 23 Jul 2011

Carlo Alberto Magni

Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE) - School of Doctorate E4E (Engineering for Economics-Economics for Engineering)

Date Written: November 1, 2009

Abstract

Accounting measures are traditionally considered not significant from an economic point of view. In particular, accounting rates of return are often regarded economically meaningless or, at the very best, poor surrogates for the IRR, which is held to be “the” economic yield. Likewise, residual income does not enjoy, in general, periodic consistency with the project NPV, so residual income maximization is not equivalent to NPV maximization. This paper shows that the opposition accounting/economic is artificial and, taking a capital budgeting perspective, illustrates the strong (formal and conceptual) connections existing between economic measures and accounting measures. In particular, the average accounting rate of return is the correct economic yield of a project; the traditional IRR is (whenever it exists) only a particular case of it. The average accounting rate generates a decision rule which is logically equivalent to the NPV rule for both accept/reject decisions and project ranking. The paper also shows that maximization of the simple arithmetic mean of residual incomes is equivalent to NPV maximization, owing to its periodic consistency in the sense of Egginton (1995). Such an index may then be used for incentive compensation as well. Moreover, asset pricing may be interpreted in accounting terms as the process whereby the market determines the income impact on the assets’ value. As a result, the paper harmonizes the notions of accounting rate of return, internal rate of return, residual income, net present value: they are just different ways of cognizing the same notion. This conciliation stems in a rather natural way from three sources: (i) a fundamental accounting identity, which links income and cash flow in a comprehensive way, (ii) the definition of Chisini mean, (iii) a notion of residual income which takes account of the “real” (comprehensive) cost of capital.

Keywords: capital budgeting, accounting rate of return, economic yield, internal rate of return, residual income, net present value, average, Chisini mean, cost of capital

JEL Classification: M41, G11, G12, G31, D81, M52

Suggested Citation:

Magni, Carlo Alberto, Accounting and Economic Measures: An Integrated Theory of Capital Budgeting (November 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1498106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1498106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
M Adler
The true rate of return and the reinvestment rate
The Engineering Economist , volume 15 , p. 185 - 187 Posted: 1970
Crossref
R Anctil
Capital budgeting using residual income maximization
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 34 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R Anctil , Jordan J S Mukherji
The asymptotic optimality of residual income maximization
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 2 , issue 3 Posted: 1998
R N Anthony
Accounting for the Cost of Interest Posted: 1975
Load more
9 Citations
Elisabetta Gualandri , Mario Noera
Monitoring Systemic Risk A Survey of the Available Macroprudential Toolkit
27 Pages · Posted: 19 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 130
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carlo Alberto Magni
Capital depreciation and the underdetermination of rate of return: A unifying perspective
Journal of Mathematical Economics , volume 67 , p. 54 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Gianfranco Gianfelice , Giuseppe Marotta , Costanza Torricelli
A Liquidity Risk Index as a Regulatory Tool for Systemically Important Banks? An Empirical Assessment Across Two Financial Crises
29 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2013 · Downloads: 187
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Giuseppe Marotta
Are Defined Contribution Pension Schemes Socially Sustainable? A Conceptual Map from a Macroprudential Perspective
Banks and Bank Systems, Vol. 7, Issue 1, pp. 24-30, 2012 , CEFIN Working Paper No. 28 · 16 Pages · Posted: 10 Oct 2011 · Last revised: 13 Dec 2013 · Downloads: 99
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,820
RANK
39,767
9 Citations
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Average Internal Rate of Return and Investment Decisions: A New Perspective

By Carlo Alberto Magni

The Theory of Corporate Finance: A Historical Overview

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased) and Clifford W. Smith

Addendum to ‘Average Internal Rate of Return and Investment Decisions: A New Perspective’

By Carlo Alberto Magni

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies