Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting's Recognition of Intangibles: Response to Penman/CEASA - Why Marking Equity to Market Makes Sense - 'Divining Rods Unnecessary'

29 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2009 Last revised: 16 Nov 2009

M. A. Gumport

MG Holdings/SIP

Date Written: November 2, 2009

Abstract

Columbia University’s Center for Excellence in Accounting and Security Analysis (CEASA) recently distributed Stephen Penman’s June 2009 paper, “Accounting for Intangible Assets: There is Also an Income Statement”. Penman acclaims accounting’s “brilliance” and provides a reasoned argument as to why intangible assets should remain largely excluded from the balance sheet: Intangible assets are speculative. This essay summarizes Penman’s logic and offers a rebuttal.

Grant that Penman is correct, that most intangibles are speculative, that speculative intangibles merit exclusion from the balance sheet, and that exclusion facilitates efforts of securities analysts to gauge a corporation’s fair value. Still, Penman’s basic premise merits closer scrutiny: What if an asset, while intangible, nonetheless has readily measurable value against which contracts are struck? What if its value can be monetized at will? How should such a “tangible intangible” be treated when the speculative element is, for all intents and purposes, entirely absent? From a strictly utilitarian standpoint, would recognition of “tangible intangibles” improve financial statements?

“Equity market value added” or “GAAP’s gap”, the spread between a firm’s GAAP book value and its public equity market value, is a “tangible intangible” that Penman gives short shrift. The gap is a hallmark of “modern” accounting, and, for the typical public company, is quantifiable, substantial, and readily monetized. Penman’s opposition notwithstanding, marking equity to market would eliminate the gap and increase the utility of financial statements to their key constituency, corporate shareholders, as illustrated through the parable of Apex Securities and example adjusted financial statements.

Keywords: Intangible, tangible, CEASA, Penman, mark to market, equity, GAAP's gap, Pacioli, Citrix, Autodesk, McAfee, Cadence, National Semiconductor, Dell

JEL Classification: G35, G30, M40, M41, G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Gumport, Michael A., Accounting's Recognition of Intangibles: Response to Penman/CEASA - Why Marking Equity to Market Makes Sense - 'Divining Rods Unnecessary' (November 2, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1498307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1498307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Corporate Advisors Initial
Crossref
Skype: m.a.gumport Email: magumport@att
Corporate Advisors Initial
Crossref
Skype: m.a.gumport Email: magumport@att
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,553
RANK
289,981
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies