Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Outcomes in Empirical Management Accounting Research: Recent Developments and Implications for Future Research

International Journal of Productivity and Performance Management, Vol. 59, No. 5, pp. 468-492, 2010

37 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2009 Last revised: 24 Nov 2010

Lili-Anne Kihn

University of Tampere, Faculty of Management

Date Written: November 3, 2009

Abstract

Purpose – This paper seeks to further our understanding of the research in the area of quantitative management accounting research. The purpose of this study is: (1) to provide a synthesis and an extended discussion of the literature from the performance outcome standpoint, and (2) to foster future research in this area by identifying promising recent developments in the assessment of performance outcomes and gaps in the literature.

Design/methodology/approach – A literature analysis was adopted based on empirical studies and literature reviews published in a wide range of journals.

Findings – The overall conclusion of this study is that future management accounting research can still make progress in the measurement of performance outcomes.

Research limitations/implications – Research published in English, and the period of the past decade was emphasized to examine recent frontiers of knowledge. The results imply that increasing and simultaneous analysis of various kinds of performance outcomes could be conducted in different settings. They include behavioral, market-based, accounting-based, non-financial, competitive strategic, social and environmental outcomes, competitiveness of systems and relative-to-peers assessments. If possible, development of performance outcomes could be investigated with longitudinal and panel, in addition to cross-sectional, research designs. Attempts could be made to analyze the nature of causality to advance both management accounting literature and social science research.

Practical implications – This study furthers understanding of behaviorally-, organizationally- and strategically-oriented management accounting research that has played a central role in assessing to what extent people are likely to succeed with their management accounting and control systems in various settings.

Originality/value – This paper presents a theoretical framework and several examples potentially useful for both academic scholars and practitioners.

Keywords: Behavioral Accounting, Contingency, Literature Analysis, Organizations, Performance, Strategic Management Accounting

JEL Classification: L20, M10, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kihn, Lili-Anne, Performance Outcomes in Empirical Management Accounting Research: Recent Developments and Implications for Future Research (November 3, 2009). International Journal of Productivity and Performance Management, Vol. 59, No. 5, pp. 468-492, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1499080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
Management control systems in research and development organizations: the role of accounting, behavior and personnel controls
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 23 , p. 189 - 204 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
The role of budgets in organizations facing strategic change: en exploratory study
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 24 , p. 198 - 204 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S W Anderson
A framework for assessing cost management system changes: the case of activity based costing implementation at General Motors
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 7 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 1986
S W Anderson , M S Young
The impact of contextual and process factors on the evaluation of activity-based costing systems
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 24 , p. 525 - 559 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Minmin Xi
Examination Appropriateness of Balanced Scorecard Interactive Use in Chinese Manufacturing Industry
22 Pages · Posted: 16 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 21 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 143
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gregory D. Saxton , Chao Guo
Social Media Capital: Conceptualizing the Nature, Acquisition, and Expenditure of Social Media-Based Organizational Resources
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, Vol. 36, 2020, doi: 10.1016/j.accinf.2019.100443 · 47 Pages · Posted: 22 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 7 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 148
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,817
RANK
256,420
2 Citations
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Management Accounting Systems Adoption Decisions: Evidence and Performance Implications from Startup Companies

By Tony Davila and George Foster

Introducing the First Management Control Systems: Evidence from the Retail Sector

By Tatiana Sandino

Financial Statement and Projection Preparation in Start-Up Ventures

By Gavin Cassar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies