Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
History of Methodology in the Professional Valuation of Capital

55 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2009 Last revised: 9 Jun 2021

Andrey I. Artemenkov

Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT); Ariel University

Date Written: November 9, 2009

Abstract

This 50-page survey of methodological history in the area of Professional Valuation aims to deliver a historic analysis of the methodological material and context which lay behind the foundation of the Professional Valuation - first institutionalized in the United States by the Appraisal Institute during the period of The Great Depression.

We come to the conclusion that during this period the Professional Valuation methodology (back then mostly focused on the appraisal of real estate) can be broadly characterized as possessing a non-positivist slant. This means that, in the perception of the first methodologists of the Profession, appraisal values were not supposed to be in the likeness of prevailing market prices other than by accident, viz. they have been conceived as broad anticyclical metrics of sustainable values in the framework of long-term 'normal prices' from the Marshallian price analysis. Conditions of the Great Depression were favorable to the dissemination of this non-positivist view of professional appraisal functions, according to which the Profession tended to regard itself as an explicit public interest profession consciously combating the destruction of values amidst the extreme seizure of the capital markets.

After the World War II and the settling of capital market activities into the growth mode accompanied by the generally increasing public affluence, there had occurred a gradual shift toward a more positivist view of the appraisal functions. The profession began to trust market prices and the new winds among valuers caused them to believe that their functions should include nothing more than reflecting prevailing market prices and certifying them as 'values' in their reports. By 1960th the valuers had become mere passive scorekeepers/reflectors of the market and abandoned all the aspiration of them ever possessing some pricing influence to serve public interest. The conscious annunciation of this new significantly desiccated ideology occurred during a so-called ‘positivist revolution in valuation methodology’ pioneered by such writers as Wendt, Ratcliff, Kinnard etc. Their views were paralleled and reinforced by dogmas of the so-called new classical economics that included the proponents of efficient markets theories. Since their time, the mechanistic, purely positivist functions of the valuation profession have been taken for granted and still dominate its worldview. Beyond them the profession ventures not.

Our analysis, by building on the ‘liquidity pricing scientific research program’ pioneered in the modern day by such researchers as Plantin, Sapra, Shin, Carletti et al, attempts to bring to light what we contend are substantive merits of the non-positivist valuation doctrine of the Depression Era methodologists (such as Babcock, Schmutz & MacKomrick, Hyder etc.). The revival of such a doctrine will help to impregnate with new vision and scope currently ongoing disputes about public benefits of the fair value accounting etc. As for professional valuers themselves, by reading this paper they will benefit from understanding the historic and general economic context of the development of the three-approaches-to-value doctrine, and also gain an insight into interpreting the Market value basis convention and how it evolved overtime. The hidden conceptual facets of the Elwood approach to valuation, not discussed elsewhere, are also highlighted in this paper, as are some distinctions of emphasis between the American and British schools of valuation thought.

Most importantly, in doing research this paper treats valuation profession as an institution which has important macroeconomic role to play in guiding the pricing processes on the capital markets. Because of this, there is a clear-cut case to regulate the methodology of this profession on the national level and having regard to explicit macroeconomic and public interest, not merely to private interests of the entirety of consumers of valuation services or the valuation industry itself. In all this, some strands of the non-positivist valuation methodology highlighted in this paper emerge that can serve as arrows in the quiver of regulators to encourage the empowerment of Professional Valuation with its newly-found macroeconomic & public interest authority and related duties.

Therefore, this survey is not intended as another survey of mere technical tools of valuation or their development, but as a broad survey of evolving socio-economic vision and forces underlying the methodology that created those techniques and tools.

Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.

Keywords: Methodological history of Professional Valuation, Positivist revolution in Valuation, Neoclassical roots of the Professional Valuation methods, Public and Macroeconomic role of the Professional Valuation

JEL Classification: D46, G28, G29

Suggested Citation:

Artemenkov, Andrey I., History of Methodology in the Professional Valuation of Capital (November 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1502804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1502804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
Весьма примечательными по своей логической четкости были работы Т. Grissom'a (Grissom (1985) 21 , Grissom (1986) 22 ), в которых он исследовал отношения между концептами стоимости , volume 19
В этих работах он также предложил идею о том, что каждый подход
John D Dorchester
The next era in Appraisal: Opportunity vs. Obsolescence
The Appraisal Journal Posted: 1985-01
P Korpacz &amp; R , Marchitelli
Market value: A contemporary perspective
The Appraisal Journal Posted: 1984-10
Load more
2 Citations
Andrey I. Artemenkov , Olga Medvedeva
Coвременные течения в теориях Экономических измерений: анализ и макроэкономические последствия (Modern Developments within the Fields of Economic Measurements: Analysis and Macroeconomic Implications)
53 Pages · Posted: 29 Mar 2019 · Downloads: 97
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marcel J. Boumans , Ariane Dupont
A History of the Histories of Econometrics
HISTORIES ON ECONOMETRICS, Supplement, Durham: Duke University Press, 2011 · 39 Pages · Posted: 27 Jan 2011 · Last revised: 31 Jan 2011 · Downloads: 254
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,693
RANK
281,769
2 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies