Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Price Formation, Financial Instability and Accounting Design

American Accounting Association Annual Meeting, S. Francisco, August 2010

34 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 5 Jun 2013

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Pierpaolo Giannoccolo

University of Bologna

Date Written: June 5, 2013

Abstract

This paper develops a model of share price formation driven by accounting and market structures. Heterogeneous investors are assumed to discover and process fundamental information disclosed by the accounting system. The information set available to share market investors is then jointly composed by market-driven and firm-specific (non-market) information. From one side, the accounting system provides collective signals of fundamental information. From another side, the price system provides collective signals of market-driven information. Both structures are significant for the formation of aggregate share market prices over time. We simulate share price formation under alternative accounting designs (namely, historical cost and fair value accounting), and derive implications and recommendations for the concept and occurrence of speculative bubbles, the cyclical effects of accounting design on share market evolution, and share market allocative efficiencies.

Keywords: accounting information, asset pricing model, fundamentalism, chartism, large fluctuations, market microstructure, historical cost accounting, fair value accounting

JEL Classification: C63, D4, M41, M48, G1

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Giannoccolo, Pierpaolo, Share Price Formation, Financial Instability and Accounting Design (June 5, 2013). American Accounting Association Annual Meeting, S. Francisco, August 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1502912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert N Anthony
Rethinking the rules of …nancial accounting. Examining the rules for proper reporting Posted: 2004
M Anufriev , V Panchenko
Asset prices, traders' behavior and market design
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , volume 33 , p. 1073 - 1090 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Aoki , H Yoshikawa
Reconstructing Macroeconomics Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,399
RANK
239,255
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An Economic Analysis of Fair Value: Accounting as a Vector of Crisis

By Vincent Bignon, Yuri Biondi, ...

Mathematical Institutional Economics

By Martin Shubik

Accounting and the Formation of Share Market Prices Over Time: A Mathematical Institutional Economic Analysis Through Simulation and Experiment

By Yuri Biondi

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies