Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) to Investigate the Usefulness of Accounting Information in the Egyptian Settings

AAA AIS-SET Mid-Year Meeting, 2010

20 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2009 Last revised: 1 Nov 2023

Dina El Mahdy, Ph.D., CFE

Morgan State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 12, 2009

Abstract

The main objective of this study is to investigate the usefulness of accounting information in explaining stock price performance in the Egyptian stock market. This objective centers on introducing an artificial intelligence technique, namely, Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), as an alternative to the traditional linear regression models often used in prior research. The predictive power of ANNs is tested against that of traditional linear regression models. Results suggest that the performance of ANNs outperforms the traditional linear regression models in some input categories, excluding the accounting ones. The predictive power of ANNs is almost the same as that of the traditional linear regression models when considering input categories that include only accounting variables. Empirical evidence provides little support for linear regression misspecifications as an explanation for the low documented usefulness (returns-earnings association) of accounting information in prior research.

Keywords: Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), Association Studies, Usefulness, Technical Analysis, Synergistic Market Analysis, Macroeconomic variables

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M47, C30

Suggested Citation:

El Mahdy, Dina, Using Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) to Investigate the Usefulness of Accounting Information in the Egyptian Settings (November 12, 2009). AAA AIS-SET Mid-Year Meeting, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1505051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Jeffery S Abarbanell , Brian J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future earnings and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring Value Relevance in a (possibly) Inefficient Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002-09
Ashique Ali , Paul Zarowin
The Role of Earnings Level in Annual Earnings-Returns Studies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 286 - 296 Posted: 1992
Ashique Ali
The Incremental Information Content of Earnings, Working Capital from Operations, and Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 74 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,359
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies