Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk and Market Reaction to Restatements

Journal of Financial Research, Vol. 36, No. 1, 2013

45 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2009 Last revised: 28 Mar 2013

Katsiaryna Bardos

Fairfield University

Joseph H. Golec

University of Connecticut - Department of Finance

John P. Harding

University of Connecticut - School of Business - Center for Real Estate and Urban Economic Studies

Date Written: March 2, 2009

Abstract

A large negative stock price reaction to a restatement announcement could imply a particularly significant accounting error, or one made by a firm that has a relatively high probability of being sued. This paper investigates the extent to which market reactions to restatement announcements are explained by litigation risk. We model the simultaneous relationship between restatement announcement abnormal returns and litigation risk and find that about half of the -9.2 percent average restatement announcement effect is due to expected litigation costs. We also find that the significance of the accounting error does not directly affect the magnitude of the abnormal return; it only affects abnormal return indirectly because it increases the probability of being sued.

Suggested Citation:

Bardos, Katsiaryna and Golec, Joseph and Harding, John P., Litigation Risk and Market Reaction to Restatements (March 2, 2009). Journal of Financial Research, Vol. 36, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1505119 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1505119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Kirsten L. Anderson , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Effect of 10k Restatements on Firm Value, Information Asymmetries, and Investors' Reliance on Earnings
Pages: 30 Posted: 17 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J D Angrist
Estimation of Limited Dependent Variable Models with Dummy Endogenous Regressors: Simple Strategies for Empirical Practice
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 16 Posted: 2001
Brad A. Badertscher , Daniel W. Collins , Thomas Z. Lys
Discretionary Accounting Choices and the Predictive Ability of Accruals with Respect to Future Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), 2012 Posted: 15 Oct 2007 Last revised: 8 Feb 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Barclay , F Torchio
A comparison of trading models used for calculating aggregate damages in securities litigation
Law and Contemporary Problems , volume 64 , p. 105 - 136 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,731
RANK
122,782
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies