Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimation of Dynamic Latent Variable Models Using Simulated Nonparametric Moments

43 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2009

Michael Creel

Autonomous University of Barcelona

Dennis Kristensen

University College London; Cemmap (Centre for Microdata Methods and Practice)

Date Written: November 12, 2009

Abstract

Given a model that can be simulated, conditional moments at a trial parameter value can be calculated with high accuracy by applying kernel smoothing methods to a long simulation. With such conditional moments in hand, standard method of moments techniques can be used to estimate the parameter. Because conditional moments are calculated using kernel smoothing rather than simple averaging, it is not necessary that the model be simulable subject to the conditioning information that is used to define the moment conditions. For this reason, the proposed estimator is applicable to general dynamic latent variable models. It is shown that as the number of simulations diverges, the estimator is consistent and a higher-order expansion reveals the stochastic difference between the infeasible GMM estimator based on the same moment conditions and the simulated version. In particular, we show how to adjust standard errors to account for the simulations. Monte Carlo results show how the estimator may be applied to a range of dynamic latent variable (DLV) models, and that it performs well in comparison to several other estimators that have been proposed for DLV models.

Keywords: dynamic latent variable models, simulation-based estimation, simulated moments, kernel regression, nonparametric estimation

JEL Classification: C13, C14, C15

Suggested Citation:

Creel, Michael and Kristensen, Dennis, Estimation of Dynamic Latent Variable Models Using Simulated Nonparametric Moments (November 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1507399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1507399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
C Ai
A semiparametric maximum likelihood estimator
Econometrica , volume 65 , p. 933 - 963 Posted: 1997
Crossref
F Altissimo , A Mele
Simulated nonparametric estimation of dynamic models
Review of Economic Studies , volume 76 , p. 413 - 450 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Anatolyev
Approximately optimal instrument for multiperiod conditional moment restrictions, working paper
New Economic School Posted: 2002
S Anatolyev
The form of the optimal nonlinear instrument for multiperiod conditional moment restrictions
Econometric Theory , volume 19 , p. 602 - 609 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,559
RANK
653,768
3 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Nonparametric Pricing of Interest Rate Derivative Securities

By Yacine Ait-sahalia

Back to the Future: Generating Moment Implications for Continuous-Time Markov Processes

By Lars Peter Hansen and José A. Scheinkman

Maximum-Likelihood Estimation of Discretely Sampled Diffusions: A Closed-Form Approach

By Yacine Ait-sahalia

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies