Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Management Controls to Mitigate Risk in Strategic Alliances: Field and Survey Evidence

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2013

43 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2009 Last revised: 3 Aug 2015

Shannon W. Anderson

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Margaret H. Christ

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Henri C. Dekker

VU University Amsterdam

Karen Sedatole

Goizueta Business School

Date Written: September 3, 2013

Abstract

Transaction cost economics (TCE) theory is widely used to study the governance and management control practices used to mitigate interfirm alliance risk. Following Williamson (1985, 1991), empirical studies typically measure transaction characteristics that proxy for risk in alliances (e.g., asset specificity), and test for a relation between these measures and alliance management control choices. A common criticism of studies in this literature is that they typically focus on a narrow set of governance decisions (e.g., make versus buy) or control practices (e.g., specific contract terms). We posit that an equally limiting aspect of this literature is its reliance on risk proxies measured at the level of the individual transaction. These proxies fail to explicate specific alliance risks, and coupled with an undue focus on transactions rather than the totality of interfirm relationships, limit our understanding of how risks give rise to management controls more broadly defined. In this study we use field-based research and survey methods to develop a comprehensive inventory of the specific risks that managers anticipate and to provide insight regarding their prevalence across different types of interfirm alliances. Our analysis of the data supports an extant classification scheme that dichotomizes alliance risk as relational risk or performance risk (Das and Teng 1996, 2001). However, our analysis reveals another distinct risk category: compliance and regulatory risk, that figures prominently in accounting risk frameworks (i.e., COSO). Our exploratory analysis of correlation in the use of management controls, including contracts as well as pre- and post-contractual control processes, reveals six sets of alliance control practices. Relating these to risks, we find that performance risk is associated primarily with careful partner selection and contractual outcome agreements; relational risk is associated primarily with explicit exit agreements; and, compliance and regulatory risk is associated primarily with informal controls. In addition, we find that as compared to contractual alliances, alliances with shared ownership (i.e., joint ventures) make greater use of financial controls and informal controls. By identifying specific risks and controls used in practice and providing preliminary evidence of their relationships, this study provides a reference for future researchers seeking to provide more meaningful insight into the relationship between interfirm alliance risk environment and control systems.

Keywords: Strategic alliances, risk management, field research, survey research

JEL Classification: D23, M40

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Shannon W. and Christ, Margaret H. and Dekker, Henri C. and Sedatole, Karen, The Use of Management Controls to Mitigate Risk in Strategic Alliances: Field and Survey Evidence (September 3, 2013). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1509461 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1509461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Shannon W. Anderson , Margaret H. Christ , Henri C. Dekker , Karen Sedatole
The Use of Management Controls to Mitigate Risk in Strategic Alliances: Field and Survey Evidence
Journal of Management Accounting Research, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2013 Pages: 43 Posted: 19 Nov 2009 Last revised: 3 Aug 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S W Anderson , H C Dekker
Accounting in networks -The transaction cost economics perspective
Accounting in Networks Posted: 2010
S W Anderson , H C Dekker
Management control for market transactions: The relation between transaction costs, incomplete contract design and subsequent performance
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 12 , p. 1734 - 1752 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S W Anderson , H C Dekker , A Van Den Abbeele
Control and residual risk in interfirm transactions Posted: 2013
Load more
13 Citations
Sharlene Sheetal Narayan Biswas , Chris Akroyd , Norio Sawabe
Management control systems effect on the micro-level processes of product innovation
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 326 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Jamelia M. Anderson-Princen
Cloud outsourcing: a multigroup analysis of cloud risk and governance effectiveness of EU, US, and Canadian financial institutions
Risk Management , volume 27 , issue 4 Posted: 2025
Crossref
ANDREAS I. NICOLAOU , KAREN L. SEDATOLE , NANCY K. LANKTON
Integrated Information Systems and Alliance Partner Trust*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 1018 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Shannon W. Anderson , Margaret H. Christ , Henri C. Dekker , Karen Sedatole
The Use of Management Controls to Mitigate Risk in Strategic Alliances: Field and Survey Evidence
Journal of Management Accounting Research, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2013 · 43 Pages · Posted: 19 Nov 2009 · Last revised: 3 Aug 2015 · Downloads: 1,453
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,042
RANK
30,404
13 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

When Do Research Consortia Work Well and Why? Evidence from Japanese Panel Data

By Lee Branstetter and Mariko Sakakibara

The Scope and Governance of International R&D Alliances

By Joanne E. Oxley and Rachelle C. Sampson

The Cost of Misaligned Governance in R&D Alliances

By Rachelle C. Sampson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies