Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Attempt at Measuring the Fiscal Influence Over Accounting of Romanian Listed Companies

45 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Feb 2010

Szilveszter Fekete

Babes-Bolyai University; Corvinus University of Budapest

Dan Cuzdriorean

Babes-Bolyai University

Lucia Sucala

Babes-Bolyai University

Dumitru Matis

Babes-Bolyai University

Date Written: February 12, 2009

Abstract

In this paper we attempt to quantify the fiscal influence over accounting on de facto level. Empirical analysis is being performed on a sample of 433 listed companies, 3 years observation period. In the analysis ‘accounting’ and ‘taxation’ measures are designed based on previous literature, being further enhanced for theoretical considerations. The model we use is defined in a dynamic fashion since we believe this form captures the best the economic content of the accounting-taxation relationship. We contribute to the literature in two ways. The measurement technique is to our knowledge a premier, since this model has never been applied in previous tax research in accounting. Furthermore, this is the first empirical tax research paper in the Romanian accounting literature. We believe this issue is important, particularly for emerging countries, where the state has by tradition a strong implication in the economy, and therefore is highly interested in accounting figures. The topicality of the study is beyond question: during crisis the role of the state intensifies, with the appropriate tax(ation) effect, which could be detected in the accounting numbers by our model. Consequently, the model could be useful for accounting standard setters, fiscal authorities, auditors as well as users.

Keywords: accounting, taxation, income tax, Romania

JEL Classification: H20, H25, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fekete, Szilveszter and Cuzdriorean, Dan and Sucala, Lucia and Matis, Dumitru, An Attempt at Measuring the Fiscal Influence Over Accounting of Romanian Listed Companies (February 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1510430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1510430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
S Aisbitt
Tax and accounting rules: some recent developments
European Business Review , p. 92 - 97 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Berinde , R Răchişan
Taxes impact on accounting
Accounting Section of the International Conference The Impact of European Integration on the National Economy , p. 201 - 208 Posted: 2005
S Berinde
Normalizarea, armonizarea şi perspective ale deconectării contabilităţii de fiscalitate' [Standardization, harmonization and perspectives of disconnection between accounting and taxation
the volume of international conference Audit and Accounting Convergence , p. 523 - 533 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,936
RANK
208,120
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies