Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Continuous Auditing in ERP System Environments: The Current State and Future Directions

43 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2009

Randy Kuhn

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: November 23, 2009

Abstract

Recent research has focused heavily on the practicality and feasibility of alternative architectures for supporting continuous auditing. In this paper, we explore the alternative architectures for continuous auditing that have been proposed in both the research and practice environments. We blend a focus on the practical realities of the current technological options and ERP structures with the emerging theory and research on continuous assurance models. The focus is on identifying the strengths and weaknesses of each architectural form as a basis for forming a research agenda that could allow researchers to contribute to the future evolution of both ERP system designs and auditor implementation strategies. There are substantial implications and insights that should be of interest to both researchers and practitioners interested in exploring continuous audit feasibility, capability and organizational impact.

Keywords: Continuous assurance, continuous auditing, continuous monitoring, enterprise systems, enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, enterprise risk management, embedded audit modules, management control layer

JEL Classification: M40, 032

Suggested Citation:

Kuhn, Randy and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G., Continuous Auditing in ERP System Environments: The Current State and Future Directions (November 23, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1511990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1511990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
M Alles , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Feasibility and Economics of Continuous Assurance
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 138 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Alles , G Brennan , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Continuous Monitoring of Business Process Controls: A Pilot Implementation of a Continuous Auditing System at Siemens
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 61 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M G Alles , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Putting continuous auditing theory into practice: Lessons from two pilot implementations
Journal of Information Systems , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 214 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Amr Research
Enterprise Performance Management
Landscape Series Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,644
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,991
RANK
25,251
3 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Advances in Rule-Based Process Mining: Applications for Enterprise Risk Management and Auditing

By Filip Caron, Jan Vanthienen, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies