Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Swan Song for the Value Driver Model-Modern Theory and Application of Constant-Growth Equity Valuation Models

70 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2009

Matthias Meitner

Allianz SE

Date Written: November 15, 2009

Abstract

In this paper we shed new light on the most widely used terminal valuation tool: the accounting based value driver model (VDM). Based on a purely cash flow-driven approach we identify the requirements necessary for proper application of the VDM under a conservative accounting regime and show that, contrary to pure cash based models, the VDM only works accurately in an aseptic academic environment. A scenario analysis emphasises the noticeable quantitative impact of any violations of these assumptions. Artificially adjusting real world figures to the required aseptic academic environment is principally possible but entails additional workload and bloats the valuation model. We further show that the VDM is not only a fragile valuation tool from a technical/theoretical perspective but also prone to be misused in valuation practice due to its reliance on book rates of return rather than economic rates of return. The paper contributes to the current literature on accounting based equity valuation in various ways, as it shows that the original Gordon/Shapiro (1956)-model is misspecified as long the accounting system exhibits the characteristics of conservativeness, it lends fresh support to the Ritter/Warr (2002) critique of residual income valuation models, it highlights new problems of accounting based valuation models and it introduces new practice-relevant aspects into the discussion about terminal value estimates between Penman/Sougiannis (1998) and Lundholm/O’Keefe (2001 and 2001a). This paper stands for a renunciation of the VDM as well as an embracement of purely cash driven models.

Keywords: value driver model, equity valuation, terminal value, accounting based valuation

JEL Classification: G12, G30, M49

Suggested Citation:

Meitner, Matthias, A Swan Song for the Value Driver Model-Modern Theory and Application of Constant-Growth Equity Valuation Models (November 15, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1513183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1513183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Allen , H Salim
Forecasting Profitability and Earnings: A Study of the
Applied Economics , volume 37 , issue 17 , p. 2009 - 2018 Posted: 1982
Crossref
M Bradley , G Jarrell
Expected Inflation and the Constant-Growth Valuation Model
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , p. 66 - 78 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Brealey , S Myers , F Allen
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2006
Clean Surplus: A Link Between Accounting and Finance Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,849
RANK
147,865
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Inflation and the Constant-Growth Valuation Model: A Clarification

By Michael Bradley and Gregg A. Jarrell

Terminal Value, Accounting Numbers, and Inflation

By Gunther Friedl and Bernhard Schwetzler

A Simple and Flexible DCF Valuation Formula

By Thomas J. O'brien

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies