Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Basic Concepts of the External Evaluation of Graduate Programs at Institutions of Higher Education

Social Science Series, Institute for Advanced Research

26 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2009

Manuel Vélez C.

Paulo Vélez León

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Date Written: April 1, 2008

Abstract

In the present work aims to identify the basic concepts of the external evaluation of graduate programs at institutions of higher education in the Republic of Ecuador, from audit approach of quality management systems of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the strategic management of higher education of the National Assessment and Accreditation of Higher Education of Ecuador (CONEA), with the aim of shaping and setting an object's basic frame of reference for the audit of management systems quality graduate programs in higher education institutions. This is considered the design of systems and models of categorization benchmark; the conceptualization of strategic quality planning; the definition of categories of the basic organization of the Graduate Program strategy of higher education on the lines hierarchies Authority; the functions of the graduate program and responsibilities of staff of the Graduate Program; the construction of performance measurement tool for graduate programs and the accreditation and certification of graduate programs in higher education.

There has been a historical review, systematic and various measurement tools and non-bibliometric and bibliometric assessment models in the world like Shanghai Jiao Tong University in China; Times THES-QS; Research Assessment Exercise, U.S. News & World Reports, and CONEA and ISO-IWA 2:2003. Finally, we present in condensed form, some guidelines for categorization and assessment of the strategic objectives of graduate programs, at least in its foundations and principles, can be useful and extrapolated into an institution of higher education

Note: Paper written in Spanish.

Keywords: Audit, Quality, Graduate, Indicators, Categorization, External Review, Bibliometric, Institutions of Higher Education, ISO-IWA, Ontology

JEL Classification: M49, A20

Suggested Citation:

Vélez C., Manuel and Vélez León, Paulo, Basic Concepts of the External Evaluation of Graduate Programs at Institutions of Higher Education (April 1, 2008). Social Science Series, Institute for Advanced Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1513630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Asamblea Nacional del Ecuador Posted: 1998
Crossref
Directrices para la auditoría de los sistemas de gestión de la calidad y/o ambiental Posted: 2002
Asociación Española De Normalización Y Certificación
Sistemas de gestión de la calidad para organizaciones educativas. Aplicación de la norma , volume 9001 Posted: 2000
L V Bertalanffy
Robots, hombres y mentes Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,973
RANK
467,197
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies