Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Predictive Power of Non-Financial Information in the Annual Report: A Study of Distressed Banks in the UK

Posted: 29 Nov 2009

Ismail A. Adelopo

De Montfort University - Leicester Business School

Dr. Kumba Jallow

Dept of Accounting and Finance, De Montfort University

Date Written: November 28, 2009

Abstract

This study investigates the narratives in the Risk Management disclosure of the four British financial institutions that were adversely affected during the recent banking crises. We added to the growing number of empirical investigations that provide alternative approach to predicting business failures through an exploration of the narratives in the annual reports.

We used content analysis with the aid of the Concordance software to extensively explore the Risk Management disclosure of these companies for period 1998-2008 and found more historical information than forward-looking information in their Risk Management disclosures. We also found that there were more pessimistic than optimistic information in their Risk Management disclosure. We found evidence that support the impression management hypotheses of management. We found positive relationship between measures of future performance and proportion of optimistic information in the Risk Management disclosures of these companies. Finally, we argue that the use of content analyses in accounting research should be streamline to reduce the level of subjectivity involved and to improve results from future research.

Keywords: Annual Reports, Narratives, Business failures, Content Analysis, Panel Approach

JEL Classification: F30, G10, G30

Suggested Citation:

Adelopo, Ismail A. and Jallow, Kumba, The Predictive Power of Non-Financial Information in the Annual Report: A Study of Distressed Banks in the UK (November 28, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1514963
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,672
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies