Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Compositionality of Accounting Information Back to Basics

69 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2009 Last revised: 13 Mar 2012

K. R. Pertsemlidis

National Technical University of Athens (NTUA)

Date Written: March 12, 2012

Abstract

Is the double-entry theory of financial statements able to serve the complexity and transparency of accounting information demanded by contemporary audiences? If yes, why the noise in the accounting communication system becomes uncontrollable under complex settings? This fact is interpreted by the present paper as a sign calling for reengineering the low-level structure of accounting transactions. In this context, Pacioli’s treatise is upgraded to comply with modern systems thinking and more specifically with three innate properties of networks of economic events, namely (i) independence of actions (expenditures, expenses, revenues, and cash flows) from accounts (physical assets, financial assets, financial liabilities, and earnings), (ii) structural coupling of physical and financial networks, and (iii) compositionality of the constituents of economic events. In this new frame of reference, the syntactic and semantic paradoxes (the nonarticulation of financial statements, the debate on conceptual primacy, etc.) are resolved resulting in consistent data structures that ameliorate the pragmatic relevance of empirical research and revitalize the semi-finished accounting innovations of the 1960s.

Keywords: compositionality, binary syntax, double-entry layout, acyclic accounting digraphs and networks, Cartesian database, FASB/IASB Conceptual Framework, 4D Frame of Reference, ERPs

JEL Classification: C60, C67, D23, E21, M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pertsemlidis, Konstantinos R., The Compositionality of Accounting Information Back to Basics (March 12, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1514295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1514295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
157 References
P B Andersen , C Emmeche , N O Finnemann , P V Christiansen
Downward Causation Posted: 2000
J K Arrow
Methodological Individualism and Social Knowledge
The American Economic Review , volume 84 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 1994
W Arthur , B
The Nature of Technology: What It Is and How It Evolves Posted: 2009
A Arya , J C Fellingham , J C Glover , D A Schroeder , G Strang
Inferring Transactions from Financial Statements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 385 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,099
RANK
206,108
157 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Theory Deficit in Accounting

By George J. Staubus

The Theory Deficit in Accounting

By George J. Staubus

Financial Statement Analysis and Valuation Spreadsheets

By Dhananjay (dan) K. Gode and James A. Ohlson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies