Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wavelet Estimators for Long Memory in Stock Markets

International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 297-317, 2009

Posted: 25 Apr 2010

Hedi Kortas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Samir Ben Ammou

University of Monastir - Computational Mathematics Laboratory

Date Written: May 1, 2009

Abstract

In this paper, fractional integrating dynamics in the return and the volatility series of stock market indices are investigated. The investigation is conducted using wavelet ordinary least squares, wavelet weighted least squares and the approximate Maximum Likelihood estimator. It is shown that the long memory property in stock returns is approximately associated with emerging markets rather than developed ones while strong evidence of long range dependence is found for all volatility series. The relevance of the wavelet-based estimators, especially, the approximate Maximum Likelihood and the weighted least squares techniques is proved in terms of stability and estimation accuracy.

Keywords: Wavelets, long memory, stock market, volatility

Suggested Citation:

Kortas, Hedi and Ben Ammou, Samir, Wavelet Estimators for Long Memory in Stock Markets (May 1, 2009). International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 297-317, 2009 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1515474
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,638
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies