Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introducing the Morningstar Solvency Score, a Bankruptcy Prediction Metric

24 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2009 Last revised: 6 Dec 2009

Warren Miller

Morningstar, Inc.

Date Written: December 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines the performance of the Morningstar Solvency Score, Morningstar’s new accounting-ratio based metric for predicting bankruptcy, in comparison to the Altman Z-Score and Distance to Default models. Specifically we tested the following:

1. The ordinal ability of each model to distinguish companies most likely to file for bankruptcy from those least likely to file for bankruptcy as measured by the Accuracy Ratio 2. The cardinal ability of each model to predict bankruptcy as measured by the bankruptcy rate of healthy-scored companies and the average rating before bankruptcy 3. The decay of the ordinal performance of each model over time as measured by the cumulative percentage change in Ordinal Score 4. The stability of the ratings of each model as measured by the Weighted Average Drift Distance

We found that the Morningstar Solvency Score has superior ordinal and cardinal bankruptcy prediction power than our comparison models within a one year time horizon. It also exhibited a lower drift rate than Distance to Default, although it had less signal durability. The Solvency Score also exhibits low correlation to the Distance to Default and TLTA models, suggesting that it incorporates enough unique information to be useful in combination with the other models.

Our testing universe consisted of both manufacturing and non-manufacturing companies, although we did exclude financial firms. We are cognizant that the Z-Score was never intended to gauge the financial health of non-manufacturing companies. However, it is often used to gauge the health of non-manufacturing companies in practice. Therefore we found it more relevant to test all of our models against a universe inclusive of non-manufacturing companies.

Keywords: Morningstar, Distance to Default, Solvency Score, Altman, Z-Score, Bankrutpcy, Default, Credit, Financial Health

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Warren, Introducing the Morningstar Solvency Score, a Bankruptcy Prediction Metric (December 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1516762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1516762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Edward I Altman
Corporate financial distress and bankruptcy predict and avoid bankruptcy, analyze and invest in distressed debt Posted: 2006
Martin Bemmann
Improving the Comparability of Insolvency Predictions
Dresden Economics Discussion Paper Series No. 08/2005 Pages: 152 Posted: 1 Jun 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Joseph Calandro
Considering the Utility of Altman's Z-Score as a Strategic Assessment and Performance Management Tool
Strategy & Leadership , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 37 - 43 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Richard Cantor , Martin , Christopher Mann
Analyzing the Tradeoff between Ratings Accuracy and Stability
Journal of Fixed Income Posted: 2006-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
713
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,702
RANK
82,629
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Parameterizing Credit Risk Models with Rating Data

By Mark Hrycay and Mark Carey

Bank Risk Rating of Business Loan

By William B. English and William R. Nelson

The Role of Non-Financial Factors in Internal Credit Ratings

By Jens Grunert, Lars Norden, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies