Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Classical Ratios and Lasso Selection for Bankruptcy Prediction

34 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2011 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Vlad Perederiy

Perederiy Consulting

Date Written: November 30, 2020

Abstract

This study pursues two issues in the context of reduced-type prediction of corporate bankruptcies. Firstly, we investigate the marginal usefulness of some non-classical ratios and indicators. We find that the performance of classical accounting and market ratios can be significantly improved by their squared terms and technical ratios built from itemized accounts. Also, missing values of many accounting items are proven to be informative.

Secondly, as the non-classical ratios dramatically increase the number of candidate variables, the variable selection becomes particularly important. We review various traditional selection methods and investigate the innovative lasso regularization technique. We show that lasso performs for these purposes better than the popular stepwise selection, and requires considerably less computational time. Furthermore, lasso proves to have a few specific advantages in the investigated context, e.g. being able to efficiently identify the non-classical ratios which complement (rather than replace) classical ratios.

Overall, the non-classical information used in this study increased the out-of-sample accuracy ratio by 1.9%. When applying the lasso instead of stepwise, this advantage increased to 2.3%.


Keywords: Default Prediction, Bankruptcy Prediction, Reduced Models, Non-Structural Models, Accounting Ratios, Market Ratios, Non-Classical Ratios, Missing Values, Logistic Regression, Variable Selection, Stepwise Selection, Lasso, L1 Regularization

JEL Classification: C25, C51, C52, G24, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Perederiy, Volodymyr, Non-Classical Ratios and Lasso Selection for Bankruptcy Prediction (November 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1518084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1518084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Edward I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Edward I Altman
Corporate Financial Distress and Bankruptcy : A Complete Guide to Predicting & Avoiding Distress and Profiting from Bankruptcy Posted: 1993
A Aziz , G Lawson
Cash Flow Reporting and Financial Distress Models: Testing of Hypotheses
Financial Management , volume 18 , p. 55 - 63 Posted: 1989
Sofie Balcaen , Hubert Ooghe
35 Years of Studies on Business Failure: An Overview of the Classic Statistical Methodologies and Their Related Problems
British Accounting Review , volume 38 , p. 63 - 93 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,144
RANK
124,786
2 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Parameterizing Credit Risk Models with Rating Data

By Mark Hrycay and Mark Carey

Bank Risk Rating of Business Loan

By William B. English and William R. Nelson

The Role of Non-Financial Factors in Internal Credit Ratings

By Jens Grunert, Lars Norden, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies