Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Operational Risk - Opportunities for Accounting Research

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 26-35, December 2008

12 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2009

Patrick J. McConnell

Macquarie University, Applied Finance Centre

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

In January 2008, the so-called Basel II regulations came into force for banks in the major industrial economies. Developed over many years, these new regulations are, at the highest level, designed to improve risk management in individual financial institutions and across the industry, through a regulatory regime based on minimum capital requirements. While the main thrust of Basel II focuses on Credit Risk, the concept of ‘Operational Risk Capital’ was introduced, requiring banks to retain specific capital to cover operational losses. Much debate has taken place in the industry as to how this new capital requirement should be calculated but, during these deliberations, accounting perspectives on control and reporting have rarely been to the fore. Since Operational Risk Capital must be reported to shareholders and the public from 2008, this is a deficiency that should be remedied. This paper first describes Basel II and the specific requirements for Operational Risk Capital. It then discusses some of the practical issues of implementation, highlighting areas where an accounting perspective could add value before, finally, identifying potential areas where useful research could be undertaken.

Keywords: Basel II, Operational Risk, Regulatory Capital, Accounting Research

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G11

Suggested Citation:

McConnell, Patrick J., Operational Risk - Opportunities for Accounting Research (December 1, 2008). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 26-35, December 2008 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1520822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Aigor
Observed range of practice in key elements of Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA) Posted: 2006-10
Prudential Standard APS 111 Capital Adequacy -Measurement of Capital Posted: 2008
Prudential Standard APS 330 Capital Adequacy -Public Disclosure of Prudential Information
Australian Regulatory Prudential Authority , p. 2008 - 114 Posted: 2008-01
Basel
International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards -A Revised Framework
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. September Basel Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,996
RANK
247,189
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Basel Ii and Operational Risk - Overview of Key Concerns

By Carolyn V. Currie

The Quantification of Operational Risk

By Markus Leippold and Paolo Vanini

Operational Risk and Reference Data: Exploring Costs, Capital Requirements and Risk Mitigation

By Allan D. Grody, Fotios Harmantzis, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies