Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Re-Examination of Analysts’ Superiority over Time-Series Forecasts of Annual Earnings

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 17, No. 4, 2012

41 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2009 Last revised: 15 Feb 2012

Mark T Bradshaw

Boston College

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

James N. Myers

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - College of Business Administration

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

We re-examine the widely held belief that analysts’ earnings per share (EPS) forecasts are superior to random walk (RW) time-series forecasts. We investigate whether analysts’ annual EPS forecasts are superior, and if so, under what conditions. Simple RW EPS forecasts are more accurate than analysts’ forecasts over longer horizons, for smaller or younger firms, and when analysts forecast negative or large changes in EPS. We also compare the accuracy of a third forecast of longer-term earnings based on a naïve extrapolation of analysts’ one-year-ahead forecasts. Surprisingly, this naïve extrapolation provides the most accurate estimate of long-term (two- and three-year-ahead) earnings. These findings recharacterize prior generalizations about the superiority of analysts’ forecasts and suggest that they are incomplete, misleading, or both. Moreover, in certain settings, researchers can rely on forecasts other than these explicit forecasts.

Keywords: analyst forecasts, earnings per share, time-series forecasts, earnings forecasts, earnings expectations

JEL Classification: M43, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bradshaw, Mark T and Drake, Michael S. and Myers, James N. and Myers, Linda A., A Re-Examination of Analysts’ Superiority over Time-Series Forecasts of Annual Earnings (2012). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 17, No. 4, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1528987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1528987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
J S Abarbanell
Do analysts" earnings forecast incorporate information in prior stock price changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Is the US stock market myopic
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
W S Albrecht , L L Lookabill , J C Mckeown
The time-series properties of annual earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 226 - 244 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,067
RANK
40,600
62 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Rate Regulation, Competition, and Loss Reserve Discounting by Property-Casualty Insurers

By Karen K. Nelson

Do We Really 'Know' What We Think We Know? A Case Study of Seminal Research and its Subsequent Overgeneralization

By Linda Smith Bamber, Theodore E. Christensen, ...

The Effects of Uncertainty on the Informativeness of Earnings: Evidence from the Insurance Industry in the Wake of Catastrophic Events

By Theodore E. Christensen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies