Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Statistical Methods in Management Research: Suggestions from a Case Study

33 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2010

Michael Wood

University of Portsmouth

Date Written: July 27, 2009

Abstract

This article uses a case study of the methods used in a research paper in the Academy of Management Journal to present a critique, on two levels, of the way statistical methods are used in management research. First, I argue that the way statistical analysis is typically presented is unnecessarily obscure, and suffers from an over-emphasis on null hypothesis significance testing. Some practical suggestions are made for tackling these problems. These include an easy way to use p values to derive more user-friendly confidence levels, and a graphically presented bootstrap resampling method (implemented on a spreadsheet) to show the conclusions which might have followed from different samples from the same source – this leads to a way of assessing confidence levels for any hypothesis about a relationship between variables. Second, the article analyses the value and limitations of adopting a statistical approach in a given management research project. These arguments lead to a series of recommendations for the sensible use of statistical methods for researching management issues.

Keywords: Management research, Statistical methods, Null hypothesis significance tests, Bootstrap resampling, Confidence intervals

Suggested Citation:

Wood, Michael, The Use of Statistical Methods in Management Research: Suggestions from a Case Study (July 27, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1529949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1529949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
I Ayres
Super crunchers: how anything can be predicted Posted: 2007
P Bamberger
From the editors. Beyond contextualization: using context theories to narrow the micro-macro gap in management research
Academy of Management Journal , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 839 - 846 Posted: 2008
Crossref
T E Becker
Potential problems in the statistical control of variables in organizational research: a qualitative analysis with recommendations
Organizational Research Methods , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 274 - 289 Posted: 2005
Crossref
William M Bolstad
Introduction to Bayesian statistics Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,248
RANK
106,324
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Operations Research eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Maths Should Not Be Hard: The Case for Making Academic Knowledge More Palatable

By Michael Wood

The Pros and Cons of Using Pros and Cons for Multi-Criteria Evaluation and Decision Making

By Michael Wood

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies