Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic and Statistical Properties of Implementable Trading Strategies

35 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2009 Last revised: 1 Feb 2010

Andrew Christie

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge

Date Written: December 29, 2009

Abstract

Capital market studies typically report one set of results that tests for both economic and statistical significance. Statistical significance is necessary, but not sufficient, for economic significance, which requires that a trading scheme earns abnormal returns, after information costs, transactions costs, the opportunity cost of capital, and adjustment for risk preferences. Such a strategy must be implementable in real time, not CRSP/Compustat time. Typical research designs are evaluated in the context of economic and statistical properties of implementable trading schemes. Applying the analysis to well known accounting papers suggests that abnormal returns cannot be earned based on publicly available information.

Keywords: Trading profits, Abnormal returns, Transactions costs, Implementable

JEL Classification: G11, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christie, Andrew, Economic and Statistical Properties of Implementable Trading Strategies (December 29, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1529821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1529821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
M S Bartlett
Fitting a straight line when both variables are subject to error
Biometrics , volume 5 , p. 207 - 212 Posted: 1949
Crossref
G J Benston , R L Hagerman
Determinants of bid-asked spreads in the over the counter market
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 1 , p. 353 - 364 Posted: 1974
Crossref
V Bernard , J Thomas
Post earnings announcement drift: Delayed price response or risk premium
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 1989
Crossref
V Bernard , J Thomas
Evidence that stock prices do not fully reflect the implications of current earnings for future earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 13 , p. 305 - 340 Posted: 1990-12
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,000
RANK
233,304
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Evidence on the Characteristics of Cross Sectional Variation in Stock Returns

By Kent D. Daniel and Sheridan Titman

Characteristics, Covariances, and Average Returns: 1929-1997

By James L. Davis, Eugene F. Fama, ...

Value Versus Growth: The International Evidence

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies