Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Article Contribution and Subsequent Citation Rates: Evidence from European Accounting Review

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Jan 2010

Geert Van Campenhout

KU Leuven - FEB@HUBrussel

Tom Van Caneghem

KU Leuven - Faculty of Business and Economics (FEB); University of Antwerp - Faculty of Applied Economics

Date Written: January 8, 2010

Abstract

Recent investigations suggest that research assessments are mainly based on publication counts and journal level and, hence, fail at capturing the multi-faced nature of research performance. Instead, some commentators indicate that focus on the article’s contribution would stimulate a more polycentric approach to research. In the current study we investigate the role of an article’s contribution on its citations. In doing this, we gather data from European Accounting Review, an outlet that plays an instrumental role in the dissemination of Europe-based accounting research and that holds a long tradition of tolerance towards the use of diverse research methods and paradigms. We employ proxies to evaluate the objective contribution of an article as well as author reputation. Our findings suggest that articles are cited for their contribution rather than as a result of the characteristics of their authors. Our study also poses some suggestions to capture the multi-faceted nature of research performance.

Keywords: European Accounting Review, accounting journal, author characteristics, article characteristics, citation rates, probit regression analysis

Suggested Citation:

Van Campenhout, Geert and Van Caneghem, Tom, Article Contribution and Subsequent Citation Rates: Evidence from European Accounting Review (January 8, 2010). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1533296
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies