Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Institutional Review of Earnings Quality in Japan

81 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2010 Last revised: 30 May 2010

Mark Landis

San Francisco State University

Mike Braswell

University of Missouri at Columbia

Kimikatsu Nishimura

San Francisco State University - Department of Accounting

Scott I. Jerris

San Francisco State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 28, 2010

Abstract

Despite its sophisticated markets and information dissemination systems, corporate disclosures in Japan have consistently shown to suffer from poor earnings quality. Drawing from international research and research conducted on Japanese companies, this literature review examines some of the institutional features of Japan which may contribute to the country’s comparatively low earnings quality. Although the review reveals large gaps in the literature, we find that the most likely characteristics driving the poor earnings quality are the disclosures practices of keiretsu affiliates and the underutilization of private or public corporate disclosure enforcement mechanisms. We also examine major reforms stemming from the Enron and Kanebo frauds that have been implemented in Japan in the last decade and discuss their implications for earnings quality.

Keywords: Japan, earnings quality, Kanebo, international, culture

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Landis, Mark and Braswell, Mike and Nishimura, Kimikatsu and Jerris, Scott I., An Institutional Review of Earnings Quality in Japan (May 28, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1536786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
135 References
M Aoki
Monitoring characteristics of the main bank system: an analytical and development view
The Japanese main bank system: its relevance for developing and transforming economies Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Aoki , H T Patrick
The Japanese main bank system: its relevance for developing and transforming economies
Oxford England Posted: 1994
K J Arrow
The Fels lectures on public policy analysis Posted: 1974
B Arruñada
Audit quality: Attributes, private safeguards and the role of regulation
European Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 224 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,273
RANK
199,490
135 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies