Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and Performance Covenants: A Signaling Approach

Contemporary Accounting Research (2016) 33 (3): 961-988

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 1538660

49 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2015 Last revised: 6 Feb 2018

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Yiwei Dou

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Baohua Xin

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 6, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the relation between performance covenants in private debt contracting and conservative accounting under adverse selection. We find that under severe adverse selection (i.e., high information asymmetry), accounting conservatism and performance covenants act as complements to signal that the borrower is unlikely to appropriate wealth from the lender. No such relation obtains in a low information asymmetry regime. We further show that in the high information asymmetry regime, borrowers with high levels of conservatism and tight performance covenants generally enjoy lower interest rate spreads than borrowers with low levels of conservatism and loose performance covenants. Consistent with our signaling theory, in the high information asymmetry regime, borrowers with high levels of conservatism and tight performance covenants are less likely to make abnormal payouts to shareholders. Our empirical results are robust to alternative measures of conservatism and covenant restrictiveness.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, Performance Covenants, Signaling, Wealth Appropriation

JEL Classification: M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Chen, Feng and Dou, Yiwei and Xin, Baohua, Accounting Conservatism and Performance Covenants: A Signaling Approach (July 6, 2015). Contemporary Accounting Research (2016) 33 (3): 961-988, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 1538660, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1538660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball
The firm as a specialist contracting intermediary: Applications to accounting and auditing. Working paper Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,035
RANK
45,758
1 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies