Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association Between Accounting Conservatism and Analysts’ Forecast Inefficiency

Asia-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2010

Jinhan Pae

Korea University Business School (KUBS)

Daniel B. Thornton

Smith School of Business at Queen's University

Date Written: January 20, 2010

Abstract

We find that analysts’ earnings forecasts do not fully impound the implications of accounting conservatism. Forecast optimism is negatively associated with the magnitude of beginning-of-year balance sheet reserves (BSR), which are associated with conservative accounting in prior years. However this result vanishes once we allow for the negative association, documented in a number of prior studies, between BSR and Basu’s (1997) asymmetric timeliness (AT) measure of conservatism. After controlling for this association, we find that forecasters’ under-reaction to bad vs. good news is negatively associated with the magnitude of BSR. We obtain similar results after allowing for the positive association between AT and Khan and Watts’ (2009) C_Score, which has been documented only recently. Our results are thus consistent with a subtle form of inefficiency of forecasts with respect to accounting conservatism, viz., analysts do not fully appreciate that the earnings of companies with lower BSR or higher C_Score are likely to be both (a) lower relative to forecast and (b) more asymmetrically timely than the earnings of companies exhibiting higher BSR or lower C_Score.

Keywords: Accounting conservatism, analyst earnings forecasts, inefficiency in analyst earnings forecasts

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Pae, Jinhan and Thornton, Daniel B., The Association Between Accounting Conservatism and Analysts’ Forecast Inefficiency (January 20, 2010). Asia-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1539763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
J S Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
The Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992-07
Crossref
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ali , A Klein , J Rosenfeld
Analysts' use of information about permanent and transitory earnings component in forecasting annual EPS
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,401
RANK
139,743
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies