Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting and Predicting Accounting Irregularities: A Comparison of Commercial and Academic Risk Measures

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2011

43 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2010 Last revised: 5 Feb 2015

Richard A. Price

University of Oklahoma

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Although a substantial body of academic research is devoted to developing and testing risk proxies that detect accounting irregularities, the academic literature has paid little attention to commercially developed risk measures. This is surprising given the general consensus that academic risk measures have relatively poor construct validity. We compare the commercially developed Accounting and Governance Risk (AGR) and Accounting Risk (AR) measures with academic risk measures to determine which best detects financial misstatements that result in Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement actions, egregious accounting restatements, and shareholder lawsuits related to accounting improprieties. We find that the commercially developed risk measures outperform the academic risk measures in all head-to-head tests for detecting misstatements. The commercial measures also perform as well as or better than the academic measures in new tests that predict future accounting irregularities using numbers reported one year before the misreporting even begins. Our results suggest commercially developed risk proxies may be useful to practitioners and academics trying to detect or predict accounting irregularities.

Keywords: accounting irregularities, detecting fraud, predicting fraud, risk measures, commercial risk ratings

JEL Classification: M41, G30, K22

Suggested Citation:

Price, Richard A. and Sharp, Nathan Y. and Wood, David A., Detecting and Predicting Accounting Irregularities: A Comparison of Commercial and Academic Risk Measures (2011). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1546675 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1546675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Audit Integrity , Llp
The Audit Integrity AGR model: measuring accounting and governance risk in public corporations Posted: 2005
Audit Integrity , Llp
Audit Integrity -Professional Services Posted: 2010-04
E Bartov , C Hayn
Investors' valuation of recognition versus disclosure: accounting for employee stock options Posted: 2007
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP violation: implications for assessing earnings management among firms with extreme financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,843
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,139
RANK
21,178
6 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies