Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
JARAF Editorial

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance, Vol. 4, No. 2, December 2009

7 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2010 Last revised: 18 Aug 2014

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 14, 2010

Abstract

It has been said that the researcher’s task is never done. As more progress is made, the horizon of knowledge recedes further into the distance. We are thus committed to the view that research into the increasingly inter-connected domains of accounting and finance, which has the capacity to inform and shape policy and practice, remains crucially valuable.

Indeed, as the financial landscape becomes more complex, we are confident that work which cuts through to the core of an issue, pinpoints areas of challenge and illuminates a pathway towards response will become even more precious. The core mission of JARAF is to facilitate dissemination of work which satisfies these objectives.

At the time of writing, JARAF is distributed on an open source basis to a readership in excess of 7000 globally, with interest rising rapidly. It has been particularly pleasing to note the substantial growth in the journal’s reach in the United States over the past 12 months.

The diverse profile of contributing authors demonstrates that the types of problems and phenomena amenable to analysis in JARAF are truly international in their character and unlikely to be resolved through the perspectives brought forward in just one jurisdiction.

With that in mind, it is with pleasure that we foreshadow the three excellent contributions contained in Volume 4(2) of the journal. The first, by Gregoriou et al covers the highly topical area of hedge fund survival. In the wash up of the global financial crisis, this issue has loomed especially large, and has substantial implications not only for innovation in financial services, but also for product choice on the part of investors.

Michael Lim's contribution on debt, the financial crisis and the financial sector is also timely and highly insightful. At a moment in history when deeply troubling questions are being raised about the impact and sustainability of public and private sector debt burdens, and with some analysts suggesting that a number of advanced western economies show the hallmark characteristics of insolvency, this is an important contribution indeed.

We also include an excellent contribution by Charles Mulford and Andrew Parkhurst which investigates the likely impact of changed accounting rules in relation to deferred acquisition costs in the insurance industry. This paper provides valuable insights into what the impact of presently proposed changes to US rules on deferred acquisition costs may be, and as such, makes a highly valuable contributions to those seeking to understand the shape and form of a future financial reporting landscape, and the implications of a move to that new reality.

In an era when contributors beyond the world of academia are rarely published in scholarly journals, we conclude this editorial by noting that of the six authors represented in this volume, three are drawn from academia and three from the world of practice. This powerfully symbolises the extraordinary and synergistic benefits which can result when the two domains meet and collaborate - and our commitment to promote and publish high quality applied research with the capacity to inform and impact on the practice of accounting and finance.

Keywords: Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Finch, Nigel, JARAF Editorial (February 14, 2010). Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance, Vol. 4, No. 2, December 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1553022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Eugene E Comiskey , Charles W Mulford
The Non-Designation of Derivatives as Hedges for Accounting Purposes
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 16 Posted: 2008
O&apos; Vincent , Katie Connell , Sullivan
The Impact of Mandatory Conversion to IFRS on the Net Income of FTSEurofi rst 80 Firms
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 26 Posted: 2008
Guy Ford
Compensation Structure and Portfolio Selection in a Banking Firm
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 42 Posted: 2008
Aswath Damodaran
Leases, Debt and Value
Pages: 57 Posted: 17 Apr 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
154,735
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies