Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Updated Stock Index and Market Seasonals (SIMS) 3.0 Data Base Includes Two International Control Measures

Research in Accounting Regulations, Vol. 21, No. 2, 2009

Posted: 28 Feb 2010

Anthony J. Cataldo

West Chester University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

This article provides updated information related to a database that regulators have found useful. Previous versions of the SIMS database were discussed in Cataldo (1998, 1999, and 2006). New to the database are BBA LIBOR measures (1997 through September 2007) and Shanghai Composite (SSE) Index measures (2000 through September 2007). BBA LIBOR measures complement the 30-day commercial paper rates provided in SIMS 2.0, as it represents the prevalent measure associated with both debt and equity markets, as impacted by sub-prime loans. The SSE Index was the Asian index most responsive to rumors of the imposition of a capital gains tax in China in late February 2007. The significance of these additional, international debt and equity control variables may require control by capital markets researchers and is the motivation for their inclusion in this description of the expanded SIMS 3.0 data base.

Keywords: SIMS database, SSE index, BBA LIBOR, SSE Index, control variables

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cataldo, Anthony J., Updated Stock Index and Market Seasonals (SIMS) 3.0 Data Base Includes Two International Control Measures (2009). Research in Accounting Regulations, Vol. 21, No. 2, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1561249
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies