Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Inquiry into the State of Academic Research in Accounting and Finance: A Case Study of the University of Burdwan (1968-2008)

The FedUni Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 5, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 82-90, February & May 2010

Posted: 2 Mar 2010

Susanta Mitra

Khandra College

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

This paper is an effort at assessing performance exclusively in the area of research activities conducted by the Department of Commerce, University of Burdwan, in awarding PhDs, along with a specific inquiry about the researches carried out in the domain of accounting and finance. The purpose is to get a general picture of the quantity and quality of research that the faculty is engaged in. A time frame of 40 years - from April 1968 to March 2008 - has been taken for the proposed study. To accommodate the investigation, the research room records of the university are taken as the input data, containing the research topics, names of the awardees and the supervisors, and the dates of awarding the dissertations. On the basis of these four variables, investigation is carried out to find the empirical facts implicit in the records.

Suggested Citation:

Mitra, Susanta, An Inquiry into the State of Academic Research in Accounting and Finance: A Case Study of the University of Burdwan (1968-2008) (March 1, 2010). The FedUni Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 5, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 82-90, February & May 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1562302
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,144
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies