Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Note on the Time Series Measure of Conservatism

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 2968

28 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2010

Sebastian Brauer

Institute of Empirical Economic Research, University of Osnabrueck

Frank Westermann

University of Osnabrueck - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); - Ifo Institute

Date Written: February 2010

Abstract

Asymmetric persistence of accounting income is often tested in a regression of changes in earnings on lagged changes in earnings, including an interaction term for negative changes (see Basu [1997] or Ball et al. [2009] for a recent overview). In this note we propose an alternative, but closely related measure of conservatism - regressing the changes in earnings on the lagged levels, similar to the threshold-unit root test specification of Enders and Granger [1998]. We argue that this approach has three distinct advantages compared to the conventional setup: (i) a smooth, non-oscillating impulse response pattern to an unexpected shock in earnings (ii) a return to the old equilibrium of earnings in the long run and (iii) it can be extended to higher order autoregressive processes. We illustrate the differences between the two approaches, when applied to a common data set of firms, as well as a data set from a Monte Carlo simulation.

Keywords: timely loss recognition, asymmetric persistence, conservatism

JEL Classification: M41, C23

Suggested Citation:

Brauer, Sebastian and Westermann, Frank, A Note on the Time Series Measure of Conservatism (February 2010). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 2968, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1564033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1564033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
W S Albrecht , L L Lookabill , Mckeown , J C
The Time Series Properties of Annual Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 226 - 244 Posted: 1977
Crossref
A Ali , Zarowin , P
Permanent Versus Transitory Components of Annual Earnings and Estimation Error in Earnings Response Coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 249 - 264 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M Arellano , S Bond
Some Tests of Specification for Panel Data: Monte Carlo Evidence and an Application to Employment Equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Ray Ball , S.P. Kothari , Valeri V. Nikolaev
Econometrics of the Basu Asymmetric Timeliness Coefficient and Accounting Conservatism
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 09-16 Pages: 36 Posted: 13 Jul 2007 Last revised: 19 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
2 Citations
Yusuf Mohammed Nulla
Board influence and CEO power to executive compensation system in American SMEs
Corporate Board role duties and composition , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 132 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Yusuf Mohammed Nulla
The role of corporate governance in executive compensation system
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 467 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,237
RANK
350,629
2 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies