Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It is Not Earnings Management if it is Not Earnings Management: An Epistemological Dialectic in Accounting

18 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2010 Last revised: 27 Aug 2010

Etumudon Ndidi Asien

Federal University Otuoke

Date Written: March 13, 2010

Abstract

This paper is an epistemological dialectic on earnings management. It appears that for a long time earnings management has taken on the cloak of nebulousness and imprecision. In fact, some researchers use the term without knowing its true meaning or purport. It is generally agreed that there is, at best, “a lack of consensus on the definition of earnings management” (Beneish, 2001) or, at worse, “confusion” (Davis-Friday and Frecka, 2002) about the construct. “The fact that accounting academics often have very different perceptions of earnings management” (Dechow and Skinner, 2000) has not helped mat-ters, and this renders most research on earnings management to suffer from construct validity. Apart from being a diatribe on the misuse of the term earnings management, this paper attempts to place issues in their proper context by presenting anecdotal and empirical evidences showing why “earnings management” may not be earnings man-agement as it is known in some quarters at present. Consequently, this paper proposes a simple conceptual framework for understanding accounts manipulation. In the process, the paper proffers a wider world-view that situates earnings management in its proper remit.

Keywords: Accounts Manipulation, Earnings Management, Financial Statements Manipulation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Asien, Etumudon Ndidi, It is Not Earnings Management if it is Not Earnings Management: An Epistemological Dialectic in Accounting (March 13, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1570029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1570029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Ball
Market and Political Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 47 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J C Bedard , K M Johnstone
Earnings Manipulation Risk, Corporate Governance Risk, and Auditors' Planning and Pricing Decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M D Beneish
Earnings Management: A Perspective. Managerial Finance , volume 27 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 2001
M D Beneish
Incentives and Penalties Related to Earnings Overstatements That Violate GAAP
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 57 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,656
RANK
254,445
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies