Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discounting When Income is Stochastic and Discounted Utility Anomalies

24 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2010 Last revised: 6 Apr 2010

Svetlana Boyarchenko

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Economics

Sergei Levendorskii

Calico Science Consulting

Date Written: March 15, 2010

Abstract

Several discounted utility anomalies are explained as rational choices of an agent with standard preferences and stochastic income. We define the term structure of absolute risk aversion and demonstrate that the gain-loss asymmetry is observed for small gains and losses and a general utility function if the term structure is non-decreasing. Agents, whose current income is less than the long-run average by a certain margin, exhibit hyperbolic discounting. The discount rate of agents, whose current income is above the central tendency, is increasing. Agents who are neither rich nor poor have hump-shaped discount rate curves.

Keywords: time preference, discounted utility anomalies

JEL Classification: D81, D91

Suggested Citation:

Boyarchenko, Svetlana I. and Levendorskii, Sergei Z., Discounting When Income is Stochastic and Discounted Utility Anomalies (March 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1571753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1571753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
B Bernheim , Antonio Douglas , Rangel
Beyond Revealed Preference: ChoiceTheoretic Foundations for Behavioral Welfare Economics
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 104 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Andrei N Borodin , Paavo Salminen
Handbook of Brownian Motion -Facts and Formulae Posted: 2002
John C Cox , Jonathan E Ingersoll , Stephen A Ross
A Theory of Term Structure of Interest Rates
Econometrica , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 407 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Partha Dasgupta , Eric Maskin
Uncertainty and Hyperbolic Discounting
American Economic Review , volume 95 , issue 4 , p. 1290 - 1299 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
RANK
495,993
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Choice Over Time

By Paola Manzini and Marco Mariotti

A Vague Theory of Choice Over Time

By Paola Manzini and Marco Mariotti

Rationalizing Boundedly Rational Choice: Sequential Rationalizability and Rational Shortlist Methods

By Paola Manzini and Marco Mariotti

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies