Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers and Acquisitions Accounting and the Diversification Discount

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

AFA 2011 Denver Meetings Paper

30 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2010 Last revised: 8 May 2013

Claudia Custodio

Imperial College London; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 21, 2013

Abstract

This paper shows that q-based measures of the diversification discount are biased upward by mergers and acquisitions activity and its accounting implications. The most common procedure to estimate the discount is to compare a conglomerate's q with that of a benchmark portfolio of focused firms. Under purchase accounting, the acquired assets are reported at their transaction-implied value in the acquirer's balance sheet. Since the transaction value typically exceeds the target's pre-merger book value, measured q tends to be lower for the merged firm than for the portfolio that combines both pre-merger entities. Because conglomerates are more acquisitive than focused firms, their measured q tends to be lower. To mitigate this measurement bias, I subtract goodwill from the book value of assets. This correction eliminates a substantial part (but not all) of the diversification discount estimated with q-based methods. Market-to-sales measures of the diversification discount should not be affected by these mergers and acquisitions effects. Evidence of the diversification discount persists when market-to-sales is used. These results cast serious doubt on these widely used methods.

Keywords: Diversification discount, M&A Accounting, Accounting Goodwill, Excess value, Tobin's q

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Custodio, Claudia, Mergers and Acquisitions Accounting and the Diversification Discount (January 21, 2013). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, AFA 2011 Denver Meetings Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1573039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1573039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,733
RANK
40,209
17 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Tobin's Q, Corporate Diversification and Firm Performance

By Larry H.p. Lang and René M. Stulz

The Cost of Diversity: The Diversification Discount and Inefficient Investment

By Raghuram G. Rajan, Henri Servaes, ...

The Cost of Diversity: The Diversification Discount and Inefficient Investment

By Raghuram G. Rajan, Henri Servaes, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies