Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are ‘Qualitative’ and ‘Quantitative’ Useful Terms for Describing Research?

Methodological Innovations Online, 2010

28 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2010

Michael Wood

University of Portsmouth

Christine Welch

University of Portsmouth

Date Written: March 31, 2010

Abstract

We examine the concepts of quantitative research and qualitative research, and argue that this dichotomy has several dimensions which are often, erroneously, assumed to coincide. We analyse two of the important dimensions – statistical versus non-statistical, and hypothesis testing versus induction. The crude quantitative-qualitative dichotomy omits many potentially useful possibilities, such as non-statistical hypothesis testing and statistical induction. We also argue that the first dimension can be extended to include establishing deterministic laws and the consideration of fictional scenarios; and the second to include “normal science” research based on questions defined by an established paradigm. These arguments mean that the possible types of research methods are more diverse than is often assumed, and that the terms “quantitative” and “qualitative” are best avoided, although other, more specific, terms are useful. One important sense in which the term “qualitative” is used is simply to refer to the use of data which yields a deep and detailed picture of the subject matter: we suggest the use of the word “rich” to describe such data.

Keywords: Qualitative research, Quantitative research, Hypothesis testing, Induction, Statistics, Fiction

Suggested Citation:

Wood, Michael and Welch, Christine, Are ‘Qualitative’ and ‘Quantitative’ Useful Terms for Describing Research? (March 31, 2010). Methodological Innovations Online, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1582433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A Bitektine
Prospective case study design: qualitative method for deductive theory testing
Organizational Research Methods , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 180 Posted: 2008
N Britten , F A Stevenson , C A Barry , N Barber , C P Bradley
Posted: 2000
Misunderstandings in prescribing decisions in general practice: qualitative study
British Medical Journal , volume 320 , p. 484 - 488
Crossref
A Bryman , E Bell
Business research methods Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,051
RANK
195,121
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies