Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Improved Test for Earnings Management Using Kernel Density Estimation

European Accounting Review 23(4), 559-591

49 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2010 Last revised: 18 May 2015

Henry Lahr

The Open University - Business School; University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research (CBR)

Date Written: August 19, 2013

Abstract

This paper improves methods developed by Burgstahler and Dichev (1997) and Bollen and Pool (2009) to test for earnings management by identifying discontinuities in distributions of scaled earnings or earnings forecast errors. While existing methods use preselected bandwidths for kernel density estimation and histogram construction, the proposed test procedure addresses the key problem of bandwidth selection by endogenizing the selection step using a bootstrap test. The main advantage offered by the bootstrap test over prior methods is that it provides a reference distribution that cannot be globally distinguished from the empirical distribution instead of assuming a correct reference distribution. This procedure limits the researcher's degrees of freedom and offers a simple procedure to find and test a local discontinuity. I apply the bootstrap density estimation to earnings, earnings changes, and earnings forecast errors in U.S. firms over the period 1976–2010. Significance levels found in earlier studies are greatly reduced, often to insignificant values. Discontinuities cannot be detected in analysts' forecast errors, while such findings of discontinuities in earlier research can be explained by a simple rounding mechanism. Earnings data show a large drop in loss aversion after 2003 that cannot be detected in changes of earnings.

Keywords: Earnings management, Loss aversion, Earnings forecasts, Distribution of reported earnings, Discontinuities in distributions

JEL Classification: M41, C14, G14, G30

Suggested Citation:

Lahr, Henry, An Improved Test for Earnings Management Using Kernel Density Estimation (August 19, 2013). European Accounting Review 23(4), 559-591, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1587969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1587969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
V E Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
Earnings management or forecast guidance to meet analyst expectations?
Accounting & Business Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 35 Posted: 2009
Crossref
V E Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
The market reward for achieving analyst earnings expectations: Does managing expectations or earnings matter
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 94 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A L Beatty , B Ke , K R Petroni
Earnings management to avoid earnings declines across publicly and privately held banks
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 547 - 570 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,594
RANK
253,593
8 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies