Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Supervised Machine Learning Procedure to Detect Electoral Fraud Using Digital Analysis

42 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2010

Francisco Cantu

University of California, San Diego - Department of Political Science

Sebastian M. Saiegh

University of California, San Diego (UCSD) - Department of Political Science

Date Written: April 22, 2010

Abstract

This paper introduces a naive Bayes classifier to detect electoral fraud using digit patterns in vote counts with authentic and synthetic data. The procedure is the following: (1) we create 10,000 simulated electoral contests between two parties using Monte Carlo methods. This training set is composed of two disjoint subsets: one containing electoral returns that follow a Benford distribution, and another where the vote counts are purposively "manipulated" by electoral tampering – a percentage of votes are taken away from one party and given to the other; (2) we calibrate membership values of the simulated elections (i.e. clean or fraudulent) using logistic regression; (3) we recover class-conditional densities using the relative frequencies from the training set; (4) we apply Bayes' rule to class-conditional probabilities and class priors to establish the membership probabilities of authentic observations. To illustrate our technique, we examine elections in the province of Buenos Aires (Argentina) between 1932 and 1942, a period with a checkered history of fraud. Our analysis allows us to successfully classify electoral contests according to their degree of fraud. More generally, our findings indicate that Benford's Law is an effective tool for identifying fraud, even when minimal information (i.e. electoral returns) is available.

Keywords: Electoral Fraud, Benford Law, Monte Carlo, Synthetic Data, Bayesian Analysis, Argentina

JEL Classification: C11, C15, C45, N46

Suggested Citation:

Cantu, Francisco and Saiegh, Sebastian M., A Supervised Machine Learning Procedure to Detect Electoral Fraud Using Digital Analysis (April 22, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1594406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1594406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Ministerio del Interior. Memoria del ministerio del interior presentada al honorable congreso de la nación , p. 1931 - 1942 Posted: 1932
Lee J Alston , A Andres , Gallo
Electoral fraud, the rise of Peron and demise of checks and balances in Argentina
Explorations in Economic History , volume 47 , p. 179 - 197 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Hakan Altinçay
On naive Bayesian fusion of dependent classifiers
Pattern Recognition Letters , volume 26 , issue 15 , p. 2463 - 2473 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Alvarez , Thad E Michael , Susan D Hall , Hyde
Election Fraud: Detecting and Deterring Electoral Manipulation Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,780
RANK
266,546
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Three Phases of Argentine Economic Growth

By Alan M. Taylor

Electoral Fraud, the Rise of Peron and Demise of Checks and Balances in Argentina

By Andres A. Gallo and Lee J. Alston

Electoral Fraud, the Rise of Peron and Demise of Checks and Balances in Argentina

By Lee J. Alston and Andres A. Gallo

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies