Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Introduction to Markov Chain Monte Carlo

31 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2010

Nicolai Schipper Jespersen

Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

This paper introduces the method of Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). An outline of the methods is given together with some preliminary tools. The Bayesian approach to statistics is introduced, and the necessary continuous state space Markov chain theory is summarized. Two common algorithms for generating random draws from complex joint distribution are presented; The Gibbs sampler and the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm. We discuss implementational issues and demonstrate the method by a simple empirical example on a generalized linear mixed model. The reader is assumed to have background in probability theory and to be familiar with discrete time Markov chains on a finite state space.

Keywords: Markov Chain Monte Carlo, MCMC, Bayesian, Generalized Linear Mixed Model, GLMM, Simulation, Gibbs Sampler, Metropolis-Hastings Algorithm

JEL Classification: C11, C15

Suggested Citation:

Jespersen, Nicolai Schipper, An Introduction to Markov Chain Monte Carlo (March 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1594971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1594971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Albert
Bayesian Computation with R (Use R) Posted: 2009
Crossref
K B Athreya , H Doss , J Sethuraman
On the convergence of the markov chain simulation method
The Annals of Statistics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 100 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S P Brooks , A Gelman
General methods for monitoring convergence of iterative simulations
Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 434 - 455 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S P Brooks , G O Roberts
Convergence assessment techniques for markov chain monte carlo
Statistics and Computing , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 319 - 335 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,533
RANK
185,725
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Specification Analysis of Affine Term Structure Models

By Qiang Dai and Kenneth J. Singleton

Specification Analysis of Affine Term Structure Models

By Qiang Dai and Kenneth J. Singleton

A No-Arbitrage Vector Autoregression of Term Structure Dynamics with Macroeconomic and Latent Variables

By Andrew Ang and Monika Piazzesi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies