Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Traditional vs. Behavioral Finance

Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 22-2010

19 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2010 Last revised: 11 May 2010

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Abstract

The traditional finance researcher sees financial settings populated not by the error-prone and emotional Homo sapiens, but by the awesome Homo economicus. The latter makes perfectly rational decisions, applies unlimited processing power to any available information, and holds preferences well-described by standard expected utility theory.

Anyone with a spouse, child, boss, or modicum of self-insight knows that the assumption of Homo economicus is false. Behavioralists in finance seek to replace Homo economicus with a more-realistic model of the financial actor. Richard Thaler, a founding father of behavioral finance, captured the conflict in a memorable National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) conference remark to traditionalist Robert Barro: “The difference between us is that you assume people are as smart as you are, while I assume people are as dumb as I am.” Thaler’s tongue-in-cheek comparison aptly illustrates how the modest substantive differences in traditionalist and behavioralist viewpoints can be exaggerated by larger differences in framing and emphasis, bringing to mind the old quip about Britain and America being “two nations divided by a common tongue.” (For what it is worth, when confirming this account of the exchange, Thaler reports that Barro agreed with his statement.)

The purpose of this article is to guide readers through this debate over fundamental assumptions about human behavior and indicate some directions behavioralists might pursue. The article provides general map of research in finance and describes in greater detail the similarities and differences between behavioral and traditional finance. I then the disagreements between the two camps in the context of the philosophy of science: Behavioralists argue, à la Thomas Kuhn, that behavioral theories are necessary to explain anomalies that cannot be accommodated by traditional theory. In return, traditionalists use a philosophy of instrumental positivism to argue that the competitive institutions in finance make deviations from Homo economicus unimportant, as long as simplifying assumption is sufficient to predict how observable variables are related to one another.

A brief history of behavioral research in financial reporting then shows that while these two philosophical perspectives are powerful, they are incomplete. The success of behavioral financial reporting also depends heavily on sociological factors, particularly the commingling of behavioral and traditional researchers within similar departments. Because most finance departments lack this form of informal interaction, behavioralists must redouble their efforts to pursue a research agenda that will persuade traditionalists. The last section proposes a research agenda that behavioralists can use to address both their substantive and sociological challenges: developing and testing models explaining how the influence of behavioral factors is mediated by the ability of institutions (like competitive markets) to scrub aggregate results of human idiosyncrasies. Such research should establish common ground between traditionalists and behavioralists, while also identifying settings in which behavioral research is likely to have the most predictive power.

Keywords: behavioral finance, behaivoral economics, financial reporting, finance, experimental finance, philosophy of science

JEL Classification: C9, G00, M2, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Robert J., Traditional vs. Behavioral Finance. Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 22-2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1596888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Jeffery S Abarbanell , Victor L Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Ray Ball , Phillip Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 78 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Nicholas Barberis , Ming Huang
The loss aversion/narrow framing approach to the equity premium puzzle Posted: 2008
Crossref
Nicholas Barberis , Andrei Shleifer , Robert Vishny
A model of investor sentiment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 49 , p. 307 - 350 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ramona Dumitriu , Razvan Stefanescu
Iluzii financiare, Partea întâi (Financial Illusions, Part 1)
37 Pages · Posted: 10 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
33,100
RANK
2,722
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why Stocks May Disappoint

By Andrew Ang, Geert Bekaert, ...

Why Stocks May Disappoint

By Andrew Ang, Geert Bekaert, ...

Individual Preferences, Monetary Gambles, and Stock Market Participation: A Case for Narrow Framing

By Nicholas Barberis, Ming Huang, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies