Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysing High Frequency Data Using ARCH and GARCH Methods

44 Pages Posted: 21 May 2010 Last revised: 23 Jul 2010

Rohit Krishnan

London Business School; Singapore Management University; Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: April 28, 2010

Abstract

High frequency data is a recent entrant to the world of statistics as they relate to the markets. With tick by tick data we get to see the microstructure of the markets and often are better able to see how they vary from the traditional portrayal. Traditional tools used to look at daily and weekly volatilities are not often very useful in timescales of seconds and minutes. In this paper we try to look at two of the most highly traded stocks in the Indian stock market. The large and small errors tend to cluster together, and thus autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity models are introduced. First we look at ARCH models on tick by tick data of SBI. Then we look at the GARCH models – with two stocks SBI and TATA – and its variants such as PGARCH and EGARCH to try to see if we can predict the conditional variance. We also glance at the DCC GARCH model to see if a bivariate view gives us any new insights. Finally we try to sum up the various techniques by evaluating them according to their utility in estimating high frequency data.

Keywords: High Frequency Data, Indian Markets, BSE, Tata, PGARCH, EGARCH, DCC GARCH, Tick by Tick

JEL Classification: C22, C87, D40, G19

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Rohit, Analysing High Frequency Data Using ARCH and GARCH Methods (April 28, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1611531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1611531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
using observations 6-2882 (T = 2877) Dependent variable: SBI_Returns Variable used as weight: 1/sigma coefficient std
ARCH (4) Output Model 1: WLS (ARCH) , p. p - value
Statistics based on the weighted data: Sum squared resid 2877.172 S.E. of regression 1
F(4, 2873) 8.100883 P-value(F)
P-value was highest for variable 9
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
683
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,121
RANK
87,334
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Modeling and Forecasting Realized Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

Modeling and Forecasting Realized Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

The Distribution of Realized Exchange Rate Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies