Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multidimensional Extension of the Archimedean Copula for Financial Return Modeling

The IUP Journal of Financial Risk Management, Vol. VII, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 78-90, March & June 2010

Posted: 24 May 2010

Woohwan Kim

Yonsei University

Date Written: May 24, 2010

Abstract

This paper proposes two nested methods - fully nested and partially nested - for the general d-dimensional extension of the Archimedean copula. It has extensively been used to model dependence among the return series, however, its extension to general d-dimension with a proper dependence structure is limited. The paper analyzes the data of six major stock indices collected on a daily basis for the period, March 8, 2002 to March 7, 2007, and finds that partially nested structure is better than a symmetric and fully nested structure for general empirical application. Kendall’s tau has been primarily used for determining a nested structure owing to its one-to-one relationship with the Archimedean copula parameter. The paper quantifies the impact of the dependence structure on portfolio risk measured by Value at Risk (VaR) and conducts a backtest for assessing the soundness of the VaR models. It confirms that the dependence structure of the return series is a critical determinant of the portfolio VaR and partially nested structure gives a conservative VaR estimate in comparison to the symmetric case.

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Woohwan, Multidimensional Extension of the Archimedean Copula for Financial Return Modeling (May 24, 2010). The IUP Journal of Financial Risk Management, Vol. VII, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 78-90, March & June 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1614803
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
957
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies