Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Structural Relationship Between Current and Capital Account Balance in India: A Time Series Analysis

MPRA Paper No. 22806

24 Pages Posted: 26 May 2010

Debashis Chakraborty

Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT)

Jaydeep Mukherjee

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tanaya Sinha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 25, 2010

Abstract

The long run relationship between current account balance (CAB) and capital account balance (KAB) and the repercussions of capital account convertibility (KAC) on growth process of a country is a much debated issue. In particular, in the aftermath of the Southeast Asian crisis, the limitation of the liberal capital regime for a developing country like India is often highlighted in the literature. However, the probable impact of introducing KAC on CAB in India generally is discussed theoretically. Though some of the existing studies in India have earlier focused on this research question, they have done so by exogenously assuming the existence of a single structural break in the interrelationship between CAB and KAB. The present study intends to bridge the gap in the literature by raising two empirical questions: first, how far KAC is likely to destabilize the CAB and second, measuring the strength of the interrelationship between CAB and KAB. The current paper also contributes to the literature by incorporating multiple endogenous structural breaks in the empirical analysis. The empirical findings do not support any long term relationship between capital and current account balance and reveals that two significant structural breaks are observed in 1993-94 and 2003-04.

Keywords: International Capital Movements, Foreign Exchange, Current Account Adjustment

JEL Classification: F21, F31, F32

Suggested Citation:

Chakraborty, Debashis and Mukherjee, Jaydeep and Sinha, Tanaya, The Structural Relationship Between Current and Capital Account Balance in India: A Time Series Analysis (May 25, 2010). MPRA Paper No. 22806, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1615266 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1615266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Manmohan Agarwal
Capital Account Convertibility: Fact and Frenzy
Har-Anand Pvt. Ltd , p. 211 - 226 Posted: 1998
Jonathan ; Anderson , Ncaer Imf , On
A Tale of Two giants: India's and China's Experience with Reform and Growth , p. 15 - 16 Posted: 2003-11
J Bai , P Perron
Computation and analysis of multiple structural change models
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 18 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Estimating and testing linear models with multiple structuralchanges
Econometrica , volume 66 , p. 47 - 78 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,102
RANK
409,437
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Globalization: A Reappraisal

By M. Ayhan Kose, Eswar S. Prasad, ...

Financial Globalization: A Reappraisal

By M. Ayhan Kose, Eswar S. Prasad, ...

Financial Globalization: A Reappraisal

By M. Ayhan Kose, Eswar S. Prasad, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies