Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impression Management and Retrospective Sense-Making in Corporate Narratives: A Social Psychology Perspective

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 24, No. 3, pp. 315 - 344, 2011

49 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2010 Last revised: 27 Apr 2013

Doris M. Merkl-Davies

Bangor University

Niamh M. Brennan

University College Dublin

Stuart McLeay

University of Sussex; The University of Sydney

Date Written: June 7, 2010

Abstract

Purpose – Prior accounting research views impression management predominantly though the lens of economics. Drawing on social psychology research we provide an alternative perspective on corporate annual narrative reporting as characterised by conditions of ‘ex post accountability’ (Aerts, 2005, p. 497). These give rise to either (i) impression management resulting from the managerial anticipation of the feedback effects of information and/or to (ii) managerial sense-making by means of the retrospective framing of organisational outcomes.

Design/Methodology/Approach – We use a content analysis approach pioneered by psychology research (Newman et al., 2003) which is based on the psychological dimension of word use to investigate the chairmen’s statements of 93 UK listed companies.

Findings – Results suggest that firms do not use chairmen’s statements to present an inaccurate view of organisational outcomes (self-presentational dissimulation). We find that negative organisational outcomes prompt managers to engage in retrospective sense-making, rather than to present a public image of organisational performance inconsistent with the view internally held by management (self-presentational dissimulation). Further, managers of large firms use chairmen’s statements to portray an accurate (i.e., consistent with organisational performance as reported in the financial statements), albeit favourable, image of the firm and of organisational outcomes (i.e., impression management by means of enhancement).

Research Limitations – The content analysis approach adopted in the study analyses words out of context.

Practical Implications – Corporate annual reporting may not only be understood from a behavioural perspective involving managers responding to objectively determined stimuli inherent in the accountability framework, but also from a symbolic interaction perspective which involves managers retrospectively making sense of organisational outcomes and events.

Originality/Value – Our approach allows us to investigate three complementary scenarios of managerial corporate annual reporting behaviour: (i) self-presentational dissimulation (i.e., presenting an inaccurate view of organisational outcomes), (ii) impression management by means of enhancement (i.e., presenting an accurate, but favourable view of organisational outcomes), and (iii) retrospective sense-making.

Keywords: Impression management, Retrospective Sense-Making, Chairmen’s Statements, Social Psychology

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Merkl-Davies, Doris M. and Brennan, Niamh M. and McLeay, Stuart, Impression Management and Retrospective Sense-Making in Corporate Narratives: A Social Psychology Perspective (June 7, 2010). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 24, No. 3, pp. 315 - 344, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1623494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E Abrahamson , C Park
Concealment of negative organizational outcomes: an agency theory perspective
Academy of Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 1302 - 1334 Posted: 1994
Crossref
A H Adelberg
Narrative disclosures contained in financial reports: means of communication or manipulation
Accounting and Business Research , volume 10 , p. 179 - 189 Posted: 1979
Crossref
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
16 Citations
Luminita Enache , Hila Fogel-Yaari , Heather Li
Signaling Long-Term Focus through Textual Emphasis of Innovation: Are Firms Putting Their Money Where Their Mouth Is?
2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming. http://doi.org/10.1111/acfi.12905. · 64 Pages · Posted: 18 Jan 2018 · Last revised: 5 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 69
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)
How Best to Communicate Intangible Resources on Websites to Inform Corporate‐Growth Reputation of Small Entrepreneurial Businesses
Journal of Small Business Management, Vol. 57, Issue 3, pp. 738-756, 2019 · 19 Pages · Posted: 28 May 2020 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Manuel Cano , Alonso Moreno
Religion and the Readability of Textual Financial Disclosures
45 Pages · Posted: 29 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 178
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gregory D. Saxton , Dean Neu
Financial Inscriptions and Social Accountability Processes
53 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,025
RANK
133,220
16 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Discretionary Disclosure Strategies in Corporate Narratives: Incremental Information or Impression Management?

By Doris M. Merkl-davies and Niamh M. Brennan

‘Metaphoring’ People out of this World: A Critical Discourse Analysis of a Chairman’s Statement of a UK Defense Firm

By Doris M. Merkl-davies and Veronika Koller

Rhetoric, Argument and Impression Management in Hostile Takeover Defence Documents

By Niamh M. Brennan, Caroline Daly, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies