Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Liquidity Management and Control: A Comparative Study of Torrent Pharma and Cipla

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 81-91, July 2010

Posted: 16 Jun 2010

S. C. Bardia

University of Rajasthan

Shweta Kastiya

International College for Girls

Date Written: June 16, 2010

Abstract

The paper discusses the application of quantitative techniques, besides the use of the technique of ratio analysis, to empirically analyze liquidity management, an important aspect of financial management, by using the financial information of two leading pharmaceutical companies of India. It covers a period of nine years (2000-01 to 2008-09). Six different liquidity ratios were used for this purpose. The paper highlights the application of hypothesis testing technique (both parametric and non-parametric tests) in comparing the performance of the two companies on all six parameters of liquidity analysis to examine and interpret the financial data. The study also offers useful suggestions to strengthen the liquidity management of the selected companies.

Suggested Citation:

Bardia, S. C. and Kastiya, Shweta, Liquidity Management and Control: A Comparative Study of Torrent Pharma and Cipla (June 16, 2010). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 81-91, July 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1625610
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,377
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies