Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Using Empirical Distribution Function Plot for Checking the Normality Assumption of a Data Set

Assam Statistical Review, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 50-58. 2009

12 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2010

Kishore K. Das

Gauhati Univesity - Department of Statistics

Dibyojyoti Bhattacharjee

Assam University

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

Since the normal distribution is the gate keeper to several statistical procedures, so conformity of a given data set to its normality assumptions is often of concern to the statisticians. Numerous parametric and non-parametric tests are available for testing the goodness of fit, some commonly used goodness of fit tests are chi-square goodness of fit test, Anderson Darling test, Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) test, Wilks Shapiro Normality test, etc. Some graphical techniques are also available to check the goodness of fit to some of the hypothetical distributions under consideration like normal probability plot, quantile plot etc. The aim of this paper is to develop a graphical tool based on empirical distribution function and the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) statistic so that the normality of a given dataset can be checked as well as visualized.

Keywords: Empirical Distribution Function, Kolmogorov-Smirnov Statistic, Statistical Graphics, Distribution Fitting

JEL Classification: C10, C12

Suggested Citation:

Das, Kishore K. and Bhattacharjee, Dibyojyoti, On Using Empirical Distribution Function Plot for Checking the Normality Assumption of a Data Set (2009). Assam Statistical Review, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 50-58. 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1630692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
The plot may also be used along with the test to provide the visualization of its own
T W Anderson
An Introduction to Multivariate Statistical Analysis Posted: 1958
P J Bickel , K Doksum
Mathematical Statistics Posted: 1977
N I Fisher
Graphical methods in nonparametric Statistics: A review and annotated Bibliography
International Statistical Review , volume 51 , p. 25 - 58 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,341
RANK
622,944
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies