Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of Virtuality Impact on Team Performance

The IUP Journal of Management Research, Vol. IX, No. 5, pp. 27-56, July 2010

Posted: 29 Jun 2010

Jaya Ahuja

The Icfai Business School (IBS), Dehradun

Date Written: June 28, 2010

Abstract

The objective of the study is to understand the various factors of virtuality and its impact on virtual team performance in software institution. A software company has been selected for studying the virtual team performance. The responses have been collected from one set of virtual institution with the help of a questionnaire and the data is analyzed using multiple linear regression. Team Performance was taken as a dependent variable and the three factors of virtuality as independent variables. The results showed that team distribution has a positive impact on team performance. Workplace mobility and variety of practices (the third factor to measure virtuality and the major objective of the study) is found to have the most significant negative impact on team performance. Qualitative study was done to enhance the process further by understanding the various practices used in the company. Around 15 employees were interviewed. Various tools were used in the software institution like video conferencing, calendaring, e-mails, wireless polling systems and internet-based collaborative technologies to collaborate with people. Overall, the results showed that certain factors of virtuality have got variable influence on virtual team performance. This warrants an in-depth study in future. The study is imperative in the present context.

Suggested Citation:

Ahuja, Jaya, A Study of Virtuality Impact on Team Performance (June 28, 2010). The IUP Journal of Management Research, Vol. IX, No. 5, pp. 27-56, July 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1631684
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,771
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies