Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Economy of Accounting - Previous and Potential Research from the Perspective of a Lobbying Approach

Journal fuer Betriebswirtschaft, Vol. 59, No. 1. pp. 1-29, 2009

Posted: 6 Jul 2010

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Ronny Gebhardt

Muenster School of Business; Münster University of Applied Sciences

Sebastian Hoffmann

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

Particularly in the field of German research tradition concerning financial accounting thoughts about interpretation and development of standards are focal points. Along with the appearance of the information economics it became apparent that financial accounting is not only a technical vehicle but a social institution. By making accounting information publicly available it may have an effect on the distribution of economic income. Insofar the presumption is feasible that those players influence standard-setting whose welfare is directly affected by it.

The above mentioned view that is rarely noted in the German-speaking countries is followed by the research approach so called ‘Political Economy of Accounting’. Aim of this research approach is to explain the complex standard-setting process by considering the different par-ties within a society. The article at hand contributes to sum up state-of-the-art advancements in the field of scientific discourse concerned and provides an outlook on perspectives in this research area.

Keywords: Political Economy of Accounting, regulation, lobbying, regulation process, empirical accounting research

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zülch, Henning and Gebhardt, Ronny and Gebhardt, Ronny and Hoffmann, Sebastian, Political Economy of Accounting - Previous and Potential Research from the Perspective of a Lobbying Approach (April 1, 2009). Journal fuer Betriebswirtschaft, Vol. 59, No. 1. pp. 1-29, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1634820
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Search; Learning; Information Costs & Specific Knowledge; Expectation & Speculation eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies