Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Confounding in Intertemporal Choice Designs: New Sampling Methods for Exponential, Arithmetic, and Hyperbolic Discounting

36 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2010

John R. Doyle

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Catherine Huirong Chen

Middlesex University Business School

Krishna Savani

Nanyang Business School

Date Written: July 13, 2010

Abstract

We examine the confounding between models of intertemporal choice. Critical outputs from hyperbolic, exponential and arithmetic discounting are all highly multicolinear in commonly used research designs. This confounding means that if one model defines a participant as impulsive, they all will: not because the models are intrinsically related, but for lack of design in the stimuli to detect their differences. Also, confounding makes it difficult to detect which model(s) people actually use, and in what circumstances. We develop methods to overcome the problem, and provide extensive tables of over 8,000 choice questions generated according to these principles, so that the degree of separation between models can be controlled. Researchers may copy and paste the questions out of the .pdf into Word, say, for further processing. We give instructions how best to sample the database of questions and/or construct alternative sampling designs.

Note, pages 26-36 inclusive are data to be copied and pasted rather than printed. They consist of several thousand comma separated numbers, formatted very densely like microfiche.

Keywords: Intertemporal choice, confounding, sampling, delay discounting, time preference, behavioral finance

JEL Classification: D90, C90, C91

Suggested Citation:

Doyle, John and Chen, Catherine Huirong and Savani, Krishna, Confounding in Intertemporal Choice Designs: New Sampling Methods for Exponential, Arithmetic, and Hyperbolic Discounting (July 13, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1639544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1639544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,098
RANK
527,931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Review of Marketing Science (ROMs)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies