Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reexamining the Relation Between Audit and Non-Audit Fees: Dealing with Weak Instruments in Two-Stage Least Squares Estimation

37 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2010

Lilian H. Chan

The University of Hong Kong

Tai-Yuan CHEN

Department of Accounting, HKUST Business School, Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Surya N. Janakiraman

University of Texas at Dallas - Department of Accounting & Information Management

Suresh Radhakrishnan

JSOM, University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: July 23, 2010

Abstract

We introduce some new econometric tests and techniques for identifying and overcoming the problem of weak instruments in the context of joint provision of audit and non-audit fees. We use this context because identifying appropriate instruments is difficult due to the lack of theoretical guidance as well as the difficulty in intuitively identifying instruments that satisfy the econometric requirements. We introduce a battery of empirical tests based on recent developments in econometrics to test for the appropriateness of the instruments. We then illustrate two approaches of using instruments from existing data: the size-industry average portfolio approach and the synthetic instrument approach. While the approach using synthetic instruments side-steps issues of identifying proxies with desirable properties, it requires some stringent assumptions that cannot be directly tested. However, as a methodological alternative, this approach can be used for robustness tests. We find that when the instruments are not weak, audit and non-audit fees are positively associated. This relationship holds for audit and tax-related non-audit fees as well. Overall, the evidence suggests the existence of economies of scope benefits from the joint supply of audit and non-audit services. Methodologically, we illustrate the importance of testing the appropriateness of the instruments utilized when accounting for endogeneity.

Keywords: Audit and non-audit fees, Two stage least squares, weak instruments

JEL Classification: C30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Lilian H. and Chen, Tai-Yuan and Janakiraman, Surya N. and Radhakrishnan, Suresh, Reexamining the Relation Between Audit and Non-Audit Fees: Dealing with Weak Instruments in Two-Stage Least Squares Estimation (July 23, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1647892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1647892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,565
RANK
164,752
5 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Relation between Auditors' Fees for Non-Audit Services and Earnings Management

By Richard M. Frankel, Marilyn F. Johnson, ...

Do Non-Audit Service Fees Impair Auditor Independence? Evidence from Going-Concern Audit Opinions

By Mark L. Defond, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

An Economic Analysis of Auditor Independence for a Multi-Client, Multi-Service Public Accounting Firm

By Rick Antle, Paul A. Griffin, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies