Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Measurement of Returns in Tests of the CAPM

32 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2010

Carl R. Schwinn

Bates College

Date Written: July 27, 2010

Abstract

Periodic returns are widely used to estimate expected return when testing the CAPM. We show that in the original one-period CAPM, the linear relationship between beta and the expected periodic return is obtained only by adjusting the expected continuously compounded return, and the linearity is well-preserved as the length of the period is increased. A reasonable interpretation of the empirical evidence is that tests of the CAPM that use periodic returns simply reflect the variance of returns, but not the pricing of securities as required by an asset pricing model.

Keywords: Capital Asset Pricing Model, CAPM, Periodic Returns

JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

Schwinn, Carl R., The Measurement of Returns in Tests of the CAPM (July 27, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1649478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1649478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,156
RANK
308,851
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Predictable and Misleading Consequences When Using Periodic Returns in Traditional Tests of the Capital Asset Pricing Model

By Carl R. Schwinn

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies