Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neuroaccounting: Consilience Between the Biologically Evolved Brain and Culturally Evolved Accounting Principles

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24, No. 2, pp. 221-255, 2010

Posted: 2 Aug 2010

John W. Dickhaut

Chapman University (Deceased)

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Kevin A. McCabe

George Mason University - Department of Economics

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 1, 2010

Abstract

We develop the hypothesis that culturally evolved accounting principles will be ultimately explained by their consilience with how the human brain has evolved biologically to evaluate social and economic exchange. We provide background on the structure and evolution of the brain, the measurement of brain behavior during economic decision making, and the brain’s central role in building economic institutions. We describe the emergence of modern accounting principles and argue that the primary function of accounting in evaluating exchange is to provide quantified information on the net benefits of past exchanges. We review evidence documented by neuroscientists that is consistent with the hypothesis that longstanding accounting principles e.g., Revenue Realization and Conservatism have distinct parallels in brain behaviors. Our analysis of Neuroaccounting extends Basu and Waymire (2006) to provide a new way to scientifically view accounting, which has implications for how we think about the origins and persistence of longstanding accounting principles.

Keywords: Accounting principles, human brain, evolution

JEL Classification: B15, D80, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dickhaut, John and Basu, Sudipta and McCabe, Kevin A. and Waymire, Gregory B., Neuroaccounting: Consilience Between the Biologically Evolved Brain and Culturally Evolved Accounting Principles (June 1, 2010). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24, No. 2, pp. 221-255, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1652426
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,391
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies