Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meta-Regression in Auditing Research: Evaluating the Evidence on the Big Firm Premium

63 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2010 Last revised: 12 Sep 2014

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: September 1, 2014

Abstract

This paper applies meta-regression analysis to take stock of the results of auditing research examining the premium charged by the Big audit firms. The Big firm premium is overstated in research taken as a whole, as a result of publication bias, but publication bias is not so strong as to completely eliminate evidence of a remaining premium. While the mean of the reported results is more than 23%, after eliminating publication bias the result is closer to 13%. The premium is significant in the United States listed companies, but not in other settings around the world. The study examines variables related to the publication process and the researchers, finding that, while there is no evidence that researchers with Big firm affiliations are subject to greater publication bias, the status of the journal and the researcher does make a difference. Meta-regression analysis has potential to lead to revised views of many areas of accounting and auditing research.

Keywords: auditing, audit fee research, meta-analysis, big 4, audit quality

JEL Classification: L13, L84, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David, Meta-Regression in Auditing Research: Evaluating the Evidence on the Big Firm Premium (September 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1675605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1675605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,764
RANK
184,612
11 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Meta-Analysis of the International Gender Wage Gap

By Doris Weichselbaumer and Rudolf Winter-ebmer

A Meta-Analysis of the International Gender Wage Gap

By Doris Weichselbaumer and Rudolf Winter-ebmer

The Effects of Competition and Equal Treatment Laws on the Gender Wage Differential

By Doris Weichselbaumer and Rudolf Winter-ebmer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies