Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Low-Quality Reporting to Financial Crises: Politics of Disclosure Regulation Along the Economic Cycle

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2010 Last revised: 26 Aug 2011

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Robert P. Magee

Northwestern University

Date Written: April 27, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines how financial reporting regulations affect, and respond to, macroeconomic cycles by exploring a positive framework in which regulators subject to political pressures respond to cyclical demands by borrowers and lenders. We establish that, as economic conditions initially decline, political power shifts toward interest groups favoring less financial transparency. What follows is a counter-cyclical increase in economic activity, as more non-reporting loans are financed, possibly coincidental with more aggregate uncertainty. During a recession, reporting quality is increased, potentially causing a crisis-like adjustment of economic activity to the cycle. We discuss implications for procyclicality, event studies, bank lobbying, mark-to-market and cost of capital.

Keywords: Business Cycle, Regulation, Positive Economics, Political, Financial Crisis, Credit Market, Accounting Standards, Lobbying

JEL Classification: D2, D7, D8, D9, E3, E6, G2, G3, H1, K2, M1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy and Magee, Robert P., From Low-Quality Reporting to Financial Crises: Politics of Disclosure Regulation Along the Economic Cycle (April 27, 2011). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1678270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
13 Citations
Aneesh Raghunandan
Selfish Regulators, Transparency, and Misreporting
49 Pages · Posted: 13 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 31 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 346
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wenjie Xue
Costly regulatory institutions of enforcement, extent of the market, and rational expectations
49 Pages · Posted: 23 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 23 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 208
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lin Nan , Chao Tang
Uniform Standards, Information Quality, and Capital Flows
Forthcoming at European Accounting Review · 46 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 25 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 98
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bo Sun , Xuan S. Tam , Eric R. Young
The Stock Market Response to a "Regulatory Sine Curve"
FRB International Finance Discussion Paper No. 1299 · 48 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 61
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
735
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,128
RANK
79,486
13 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies