Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Knowledge Framework for Development - Empirical Investigation of 30 Societies

International Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. 6, No. 4, September 2010

28 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2010

Ravi Sharma

Center for Inclusive Digital Enterprise - CeIDE; Zayed University

Ganesh Chandrasekar

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bharathkumar Vaitheeswaran

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 1, 2010

Abstract

In this article we investigate the diverse dimensions of a knowledge society. First, we review the relevant literature on post industrial societies to identify the key constituents of successful growth and development. Then we propose a 10-dimension framework within political, economic, social and technological parameters that describe the state of evolution of a given knowledge society. Knowledge assessment scores, human development indices, technology readiness scores and competitiveness scores are selected as composite indicators of knowledge societies. Proxy indicators are assigned for the dimensions, and secondary data was gathered from reputed international sources. Partial Pearson Correlation Analysis was done between the proxy indicators and the composite scales to determine the direction and strength of relationships. Since these measures are from independent and authoritative sources, we claim face and construct validity. Hygiene factors and competitive factors of a knowledge society are distilled from the empirical results and recommendations are suggested to address some areas of concern when pursuing policies for knowledge based development.

Keywords: Knowledge society, PEST analysis, Hygiene factors, Competitive factors

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Ravi S. and Chandrasekar, Ganesh and Vaitheeswaran, Bharathkumar, A Knowledge Framework for Development - Empirical Investigation of 30 Societies (September 1, 2010). International Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. 6, No. 4, September 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1690453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1690453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Thomas H Davenport , L Prusak
Working Knowledge: How organizations manage what they know Posted: 2000
Nancy M Dixon
Common Knowledge: How Companies Thrive by Sharing What They Know Posted: 2000
Peter F Drucker
Post-Capitalist Society Posted: 1993
D Foray
Optimizing the Use of Knowledge‖ in
Advancing Knowledge and the Knowledge Economy , p. 9 - 16 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,921
RANK
538,134
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Labor: Human Capital eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Beyond the Digital Divide: Policy Analysis for Knowledge Societies

By Moyosore Samuel Ekundayo, Elaine W. J. Ng, ...

Beyond the Digital Divide: A Conceptual Framework for Analyzing Knowledge Societies

By Ravi Sharma, Elaine W. J. Ng, ...

Bridging the Knowledge Gap in Developing Societies: A Field Study of Indonesia, Vietnam and Myanmar

By Arista Wirawan, Samuel Goh Chia Foong, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies