Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pricing CDOs with State Dependent Stochastic Recovery Rates

38 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2010

Salah Amraoui

BNP Paribas

Laurent Cousot

BNP Paribas

Sebastien Hitier

BNP Paribas

Jean-Paul Laurent

University Paris 1 Panthéon - Sorbonne, PRISM Sorbonne & Labex ReFi

Date Written: September 9, 2009

Abstract

Up to the 2007 crisis, research within bottom‐up CDO models mainly concentrated on the dependence between defaults. However, due to the substantial increase in the market price of systemic credit risk protection, more attention has been paid to recovery rate assumptions. In this paper, we focus first on deterministic recovery rates in a factor copula framework. We use stochastic orders theory to assess the impact of a recovery markdown on CDOs and show that it leads to an increase of the expected loss on senior tranches, even though the expected loss on the portfolio is kept fixed. This result applies to a wide range of latent factor models.

We then suggest introducing stochastic recovery rates in such a way that the conditional on the factor expected loss (or equivalently the large portfolio approximation) is the same as in the recovery markdown case. However, granular portfolios behave differently. We show that a markdown is associated with riskier portfolios that when using the stochastic recovery rate framework. As a consequence, the expected loss on a senior tranche is larger in the former case, whatever the attachment point.

We also deal with implementation and numerical issues related to the pricing of CDOs within the stochastic recovery rate framework. Due to differences across names regarding the conditional (on the factor) losses given default, the standard recursion approach becomes problematic. We suggest approximating the conditional on the factor loss distributions, through expansions around some base distribution.

Finally, we show that the independence and comonotonic cases provide some easy to compute bounds on expected losses of senior or equity tranches.

Keywords: credit risk assessment, recovery rates, stochastic orders, CDOs

JEL Classification: G13, G32, C02, D46, D84, M41

Suggested Citation:

Amraoui, Salah and Cousot, Laurent and Hitier, Sebastien and Laurent, Jean-Paul, Pricing CDOs with State Dependent Stochastic Recovery Rates (September 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1698980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1698980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
E Altman
Default Recovery Rates and LGD in Credit Risk Modeling and Practice: An Updated Review of the Literature and Empirical Evidence, working paper Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Altman , B Brady , A Resti , A Sironi
The Link between Default and Recovery Rates: Theory, Empirical Evidence, and Implications
Journal of Business , volume 78 , issue 6 , p. 2203 - 2227 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Altman , A Resti , A Sironi
Default Recovery Rates in Credit Risk Modelling: A Review of the Literature and Empirical Evidence
Economic Notes , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 208 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Salah Amraoui , Sebastien Hitier
Optimal Stochastic Recovery for Base Correlation
Pages: 15 Posted: 23 Jan 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,702
RANK
153,527
6 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Comparative Anatomy of Credit Risk Models

By Michael B. Gordy

Portfolio Credit Risk

By Thomas C. Wilson

A Risk-Factor Model Foundation for Ratings-Based Bank Capital Rules

By Michael B. Gordy

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies