Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Heterogeneity, Diversity, and General Equilibriumin Evaluating Social Programs

NBER Working Paper No. w7230

108 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 1999 Last revised: 5 Oct 2022

James J. Heckman

University of Chicago - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); American Bar Foundation; Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: July 1999

Abstract

This paper considers the problem of policy evaluation in a modern society with heterogeneous agents and diverse groups with conflicting interests. Several different approaches to the policy evaluation problem are compared including the approach adopted in modern welfare economics, the classical representative agent approach adopted in macroecononomics and the microeconomic treatment effect approach. A new approach to the policy evaluation problem is developed and applied that combines and extends the best features of these earlier approaches.Evidence on the importance of heterogeneity is presented. Using an empirically based dynamic general equilibrium model of skill formation with heterogeneous agents, the benefits of the more comprehensive approach to policy evaluation are examined in the context of examining the impact of tax reform on skill formation and the political economy aspects of such reform. A parallel analysis of tution policy is presented.

Suggested Citation:

Heckman, James J., Accounting for Heterogeneity, Diversity, and General Equilibriumin Evaluating Social Programs (July 1999). NBER Working Paper No. w7230, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=171130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
A Aakvik , J Heckman , E Vytlacil
Local Instrumental Variables and Latent Variable Models For Estimating Treatment Effects Posted: 1998
N Ahmad , Stern
The Theory of Tax Reform and Indian Indirect Taxes , volume 25 , p. 259 - 298 Posted: 1984
A Auerbach , L Kotlikoff
Dynamic Fiscal Policy Posted: 1987
W Baumol , R Quandt
The Demand For Abstract Transport Modes: Theory and Measurement
Journal of Regional Science , volume 6 , p. 13 - 26 Posted: 1966
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,712
RANK
798,750
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Peer Effects with Random Assignment: Results for Dartmouth Roommates

By Bruce Sacerdote

Peer Effects with Random Assignment: Results for Dartmouth Roommates

By Bruce Sacerdote

The Company You Keep: The Effects of Family and Neighborhood on Disadvantaged Youths

By Anne Case and Lawrence F. Katz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies