Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moral Development of Accounting Bachelor's in Brazil: Evaluation by Multidimensional Ethics Scale

31 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2010

Jose Alves Dantas

University of Brasilia

Paulo Roberto B. Lustosa

University of Brasilia

Bruno V. Ramos Fernandes

Universidade de Brasília (UnB)

José Dionísio Gomes da Silva

Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte - Main

Date Written: July 1, 2010

Abstract

Based on Cohen, Pant and Sharp (1996), the study presents innovations and advances in respect of the original work, especially regarding methodological design, particularly in econometric models and definition metrics and evaluation of variables. The research included the participation of 259 graduates in Accounting from all regions of Brazil, of different ages, gender, level of degree and kind of occupation, which represented a satisfactory level of coverage. The main objective is to evaluate the moral level of graduates in Accounting in Brazil, based on their judgment on decisions involving ethical dilemmas. To achieve this purpose, the degree of awareness and ethical orientation of these professionals in the judgment of actions taken in response to situations/ethical dilemmas can be explained by the scores of multidimensional factors of theories of moral reasoning of moral equity, relativism, utilitarianism and contractualism. In a peripheral way, the research evaluates, too, if there is a difference in perception as how the accounting professional expects to act on the moral dilemmas and how he expects his colleagues to act in comparable situations. Test results confirmed that the moral judgments of the respondents concerning actions taken in situations/dilemmas presented in the questionnaire has statistically significant positive conformity with measures representing the theories of ethical reasoning and moral equity of contractualism. The results show that the moral judgments of the respondents are directly related to what they foresee for their own behavior. For the variable representing the expected behavior, according to the respondent, for the colleagues, the tests revealed no statistically significant relation with the moral judgments that the participant makes concerning the action described in the situations/dilemmas presented.

Suggested Citation:

Dantas, Jose Alves and Lustosa, Paulo Roberto B. and Ramos Fernandes, Bruno Vinícius and Gomes da Silva, José Dionísio, Moral Development of Accounting Bachelor's in Brazil: Evaluation by Multidimensional Ethics Scale (July 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1718558 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1718558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,230
RANK
396,898
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Caused Enron?: A Capsule Social and Economic History of the 1990's

By John C. Coffee

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies