Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Earnings Forecasts to Simultaneously Estimate Firm-Specific Cost of Equity and Long-Term Growth

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2010 Last revised: 9 Mar 2011

Alex Nekrasov

University of Illinois Chicago

Maria Ogneva

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: March 3, 2011

Abstract

A growing body of literature in accounting and finance relies on implied cost of equity (COE) measures. Such measures are sensitive to assumptions about terminal earnings growth rates. In this paper we develop a new COE measure that is more accurate than existing measures because it incorporates endogenously estimated long-term growth in earnings. Our method extends Easton, Taylor, Shroff, and Sougiannis’ (2002) method of simultaneously estimating sample average COE and growth. Our method delivers COE (growth) estimates that are significantly positively associated with future realized stock returns (future realized earnings growth). Moreover, the predictive ability of our COE measure subsumes that of other commonly used COE measures and is incremental to commonly used risk characteristics. Our implied growth measure fills the void in the earnings forecasting literature by robustly predicting earnings growth beyond the five-year horizon.

Keywords: Cost of equity, expected return, expected earnings growth, residual income model

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G17, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nekrasov, Alexander and Ogneva, Maria, Using Earnings Forecasts to Simultaneously Estimate Firm-Specific Cost of Equity and Long-Term Growth (March 3, 2011). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1725481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
C Botosan , M Plumlee
Assessing alternative proxies for the expected risk premium
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , p. 21 - 53 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Carhart
On persistence in mutual fund performance
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 57 - 82 Posted: 1997
Crossref
L K.C Chan , J Karceski , J Lakonishok
The level and persistence of growth rates
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 643 - 684 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Chava , A Purnanadam
Is default risk negatively related to stock returns?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 2523 - 2559 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
800
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,311
RANK
71,004
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies