Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simulation Study to Compare the Random Data Generation from Bernoulli Distribution in Popular Statistical Packages

Pak. j. stat. oper. res., Vol. VI, No. 1, pp. 53-59, 2010

8 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2010 Last revised: 19 May 2011

Nadeem Shafique Butt

King Abdul Aziz University

Manash Pratim Kashyap

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dibyojyoti Bhattacharjee

Assam University

Date Written: December 17, 2010

Abstract

In study of the statistical packages, simulation from probability distributions is one of the important aspects. This paper is based on simulation study from Bernoulli distribution conducted by various popular statistical packages like R, SAS, Minitab, MS Excel and PASW. The accuracy of generated random data is tested through Chi-Square goodness of fit test. This simulation study based on 8685000 random numbers and 27000 tests of significance shows that ability to simulate random data from Bernoulli distribution is best in SAS and is closely followed by R Language, while Minitab showed the worst performance among compared packages.

Keywords: SPSS, SAS, Minitab, R

Suggested Citation:

Butt, Nadeem Shafique and Kashyap, Manash Pratim and Bhattacharjee, Dibyojyoti, Simulation Study to Compare the Random Data Generation from Bernoulli Distribution in Popular Statistical Packages (December 17, 2010). Pak. j. stat. oper. res., Vol. VI, No. 1, pp. 53-59, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1727487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1727487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
F Anscombe
Computing in statistical science through APL: SPRINGER-VERLAG INC, 175 FIFTH AVE Posted: 1981
R Bergmann , J Ludbrook , W Spooren
Different outcomes of the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test from different statistics packages
American Statistician , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 77 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G Dallal
The computer analysis of factorial experiments with nested factors
The American Statistician , volume 46 Posted: 1992
K K Das , T D Roy , D Bhattacharjee
Comparing the Ability of MS Excel and R While Simulating from Poisson Distribution
Assam University Journal of Science and Technology , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,444
RANK
584,078
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Computer Programs & Software eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Comparing the Ability of MS Excel and R While Simulating from Poisson Distribution

By Kishore K. Das, Tanushree Deb Roy, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies