Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
I/B/E/S Reported Actual EPS and Analysts’ Inferred Actual EPS

The Accounting Review 88 (3), May 2013

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 14-017

56 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2010 Last revised: 30 Jul 2014

Lawrence D. Brown

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Stephannie Larocque

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2012

Abstract

Users of I/B/E/S data generally act as if I/B/E/S reported actual earnings represent the earnings analysts were forecasting when they issued their earnings estimates. For example, when assessing analyst forecast accuracy, users of I/B/E/S data compare analysts’ forecasts of EPS with I/B/E/S reported actual EPS. I/B/E/S states that it calculates actuals using a “majority rule” indicating that its actuals often do not represent the earnings that all individual analysts were forecasting. We introduce a method for measuring analyst inferred actuals, and we assess how often I/B/E/S actuals do not represent analyst inferred actuals. We find that I/B/E/S reported Q1 actual EPS differs from analyst inferred actual Q1 EPS by at least one penny 39 percent of the time during our sample period, 36.5 percent of the time when only one analyst follows the firm (and hence this consensus forecast is based on the “majority rule”), and 50 percent of the time during the last three years of our sample period. We document two adverse consequences of this phenomenon. First, studies failing to recognize that I/B/E/S EPS actuals often differ from analyst inferred actuals are likely to obtain less accurate analyst earnings forecasts, smaller analyst earnings forecast revisions conditional on earnings surprises, greater analyst forecast dispersion, and smaller market reaction to earnings surprises than do studies adjusting for these differences. Second, studies failing to recognize that I/B/E/S EPS actuals often differ from analyst inferred actuals may make erroneous inferences.

Keywords: I/B/E/S reported actual EPS, analyst inferred actual EPS, accuracy, revisions, dispersion, and surprises

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Lawrence D. and Larocque, Stephannie A., I/B/E/S Reported Actual EPS and Analysts’ Inferred Actual EPS (December 1, 2012). The Accounting Review 88 (3), May 2013, Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 14-017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1732573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1732573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
J Payne , W Thomas
The implications of using stock-split adjusted I/B/E/S data in empirical research
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 4 , p. 1049 - 1067 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Ramnath , S Rock , P Shane
The financial analyst forecasting literature: taxonomy with suggestions for future research
International Journal of Forecasting , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 34 - 75 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
868
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,488
RANK
63,674
3 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies