Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is There an Accruals or a Cash Flow Anomaly in UK Stock Returns?

38 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2011

Nuno Soares

Universidade do Porto

Andrew W. Stark

Alliance Manchester Business School, University of Manchester

Date Written: January 3, 2011

Abstract

In this paper, we apply a modified one-stage version of the Mishkin (1983) test to companies in the UK stock market in order to investigate the presence or otherwise of the accruals anomaly in UK firms’ annual returns. For the period of 1990-2007, we report that there is little evidence of a general accruals anomaly in the UK, in which accruals have a negative relationship with future returns, once risk and other potential forecasting variables have been accounted for. We also provide evidence that, after winsorising extreme observations, there is a cash flow anomaly in the UK stock market. We also find evidence in favour of an anomaly with respect to capital expenditure growth. Another interpretation is that the accruals anomaly is not distinct from other anomalies in the UK market, whereas the cash flow (and the capital expenditure growth) anomaly is.

Keywords: Accruals anomaly, accrual based accounting, cash flows, financial statement analysis

JEL Classification: M41, G11, G14

Suggested Citation:

Soares, Nuno and Stark, Andrew W., Is There an Accruals or a Cash Flow Anomaly in UK Stock Returns? (January 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1734507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1734507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A B Abel , F S Mishkin
On the Econometric Testing of RationalityMarket Efficiency
Review of Economics & Statistics , volume 65 , issue 2 , p. 318 - 323 Posted: 1983
Crossref
A Al-Horani , P F Pope , A W Stark
Research and Development Activity and Expected Returns in the United Kingdom
European Finance Review , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 161 - 181 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A L C Chan , E Lee , S Lin
The impact of accounting information quality on the mispricing of accruals: The case of FRS3 in the UK
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 189 - 206 Posted: 2009
Crossref
E Dedman , S Mouselli , Y U N Shen , A W Stark
Accounting, Intangible Assets, Stock Market Activity, and Measurement and Disclosure Policy-Views From the
U.K. Abacus , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 312 - 341 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,875
RANK
164,752
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices

By Scott A. Richardson, Richard G. Sloan, ...

Accrued Earnings and Growth: Implications for Earnings Persistence and Market Mispricing

By Patricia M. Fairfield, Scott Whisenant, ...

Insider Trading, Earnings Quality, and Accrual Mispricing

By Mark E. Vargus and Messod D. Beneish

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies