Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Visualizing and Measuring Intellectual Capital in Capital Markets: A Research Method

Journal of Intellectual Capital, Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 4-22, 2010

19 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2011

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Laurence Lock Lee

Optimice Pty Ltd - Social Network Analysis Specialists

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to describe a research method successfully used to study intellectual capital (IC) and IC flows through a highly networked marketplace.

Design/methodology/approach – The method integrates computer-assisted content analysis (CA) and multivariate statistics. The CA is performed on a large source of business and analyst reports. The method is successful in enabling the elements of IC to be related to firm performance, using 156 firms in the global information technology market as a testing ground.

Findings – Computer-assisted CA techniques could be successfully used to analyse the larger samples of firms for IC attributes like human capital, internal capital and external or relational capital, than have previously been feasible using manual CA methods.

Research limitations/implications – Several limitations of the method are identified and relate to the computer-assisted CA method used. First, the method relies on the existence of a large body of content, in this case business reports and articles, to create the indices for the IC attributes. A second limitation is that the IC attributes are constructed from public sources (i.e. they represent the view of external reporters, rather than internal to the organisation reporters). The method presented combines and extends the benefits of both qualitative and quantitative methods. The richer source of IC content for a larger sample of firms is made accessible through computer-assisted CA. The overall method enables insights to be explored in relating firm IC to firm performance in the market place.

Originality/value – The integrated research method presented is the result of original research. The value to researchers is the opportunity it provides to study the IC/performance relationship across markets, rather than be limited to small sample or limited attribute studies.

Keywords: Communication technologies, Globalization, Economic Sectors, Intellectual Capital, Capital Markets

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Guthrie, James and Lock Lee, Laurence, Visualizing and Measuring Intellectual Capital in Capital Markets: A Research Method (2010). Journal of Intellectual Capital, Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 4-22, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1742575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
I Abeysekera
The project of intellectual capital disclosure: researching the research
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 77 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Abhayawansa , I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital disclosure from sell-side analyst perspective
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 294 - 306 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball
The earning-price anomaly
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 319 - 364 Posted: 1992
Crossref
O E Barron , D Byard , C Kile , E J Riedl
High technology intangibles and analysts' forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 312 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,398
RANK
181,854
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Asymmetric Covariance, Volatility and the Impact of News

By Warren G. Dean and Robert W. Faff

Corporate Social Capital and Firm Performance

By Laurence Lock Lee, James Guthrie, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies