Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Software for Determination of Biological Age

Current Bioinformatics, Vol. 4, pp. 41-47, 2009

7 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2011

Kartlos Kachiashvili

I. Vekua Institute of Applied Mathematics of the Tbilisi State University

David Melikdzhanian

I. Vekua Institute of Applied Mathematics of the Tbilisi State University

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

An original software package for determination of biological age has been offered. The package is simple for understanding and convenient in application. It is designed for the users who are not professionals in the fields of applied statistics or computer science. The problems and the algorithms realized in the package, the features and the possibilities of their application are described in brief.

The package can be used both for fundamental theoretical research in which various logical-mathematical methods of determination of biological age are compared with each other and for applied work in a geriatric clinic.

Keywords: Software, package, statistical processing, experimental information, efficiency, originality, gerontology, geriatrics, biological age.

Suggested Citation:

Kachiashvili, Kartlos and Melikdzhanian, David, Software for Determination of Biological Age (2009). Current Bioinformatics, Vol. 4, pp. 41-47, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1743485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
V P Voitenko , A M Poliukhov , L G Barbaruk , V P Kolodchenko , A N Khodzinskii
Biological age as a key problem of gerentology
In: Gerentology and Geriatrics. A year-book. Biological Age , p. 5 - 15 Posted: 1984
A V Tokar , L M Yena , E S Rudaia , N G Akhaladze , N L Severova , T D Shuba
Cardiopneumonal age and opportunities of its use in gerentology
In: Gerentology and Geriatrics. A year-book. Biological Age , p. 55 - 62 Posted: 1984
V P Voitenko
Methodology of determination of biological age, In: Gerentology and Geriatrics. A year-book. Biological Age, Heredity and Ageing , p. 133 - 137 Posted: 1984
T L Dubina , V V Zhuk
A complex of tests for estimation of biological age of laboratory rats and calculation of biological age Fig
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
RANK
614,231
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Computer Programs & Software eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies