Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Event Study Methodologies in Information Systems Research

International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, Forthcoming

26 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2011 Last revised: 3 Feb 2011

Yaniv Konchitchki

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: January 30, 2011

Abstract

Event studies are based on the theoretical framework of efficient capital markets and the notion that security prices include all information available to the market. As a result, announcements made by firms provide to market participants information that can be impounded into the market price. This paper investigates the use of event studies in accounting information systems research using a three pronged approach. First, this paper provides a comprehensive survey of research that uses event study methodologies, where the events are announcements made by firms about issues related to accounting information systems, e.g., announcements of the adoption of enterprise resource planning systems and of the effect of security breaches in firms’ information systems. Second, this paper summarizes event study methodologies used in prior research, along with some of the key parameters and concerns associated with their implementation. Third, this paper provides remarks on key event study modeling issues, and it offers recommendations to researchers.

Keywords: Information Systems, Event Study, Market Efficiency, Capital Markets, Future Performance, Accounting Information Systems

JEL Classification: G14, L86

Suggested Citation:

Konchitchki, Yaniv and O'Leary, Daniel E., Event Study Methodologies in Information Systems Research (January 30, 2011). International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1751732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
149 References
A Acquisti , A Friedman , R Telang
Is there a cost to Privacy Breeches? An Event Study
Twenty Seventh International Conference on Information Systems Posted: 2006
N Aggarwal , Q Dai , E A Walden
Do Markets Prefer Open or Proprietary Standards for XML Standardization?
International Journal of Electronic Commerce , volume 11 , p. 117 - 136 Posted: 2006
Crossref
F K Andoh-Baidoo , K.-M Osei-Bryson
Exploring the characteristics of Internet security breaches that impact the market value of breached firms
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 32 , p. 703 - 725 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J H Anthony , W Choi , S Grabski
Market reaction to e-commerce impairments evidenced by website outages
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 60 - 78 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Andreas Andreas , Tatang Ary Gumanti , Uliya Nurjannah , Intan Nurul Awwaliyah
‘The Effect of Announcement As the Host of XVIII Asian Games on the Indonesian Stock Market’
Andreas, Tatang Ary Gumanti, Uliya Nurjannah and Intan Nurul Awwaliyah. The effect of announcement as the host of XVIII Asian Games on the Indonesian stock market. Investment Management and Financial Innovations, 17(1), 109-118, 2020, DOI: 10.21511/imfi.17(1).2020.10 · 11 Pages · Posted: 1 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christos Mavrovitis (Mavis) , Ansgar Richter , Christian Landau , Sascha L. Schmidt , Tony Simons , Kai Steinbock
What Happens When Companies (Don’t) Do What They Said They Would? Stock Market Reactions to Strategic Integrity
European Management Review, Vol. 16, Issue 3, pp. 815-831, 2019 · 17 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2020 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elena Ochirova
Literature Review of Mergers and Acquisitions with the Aim to Obtain Technology and Knowledge
Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 4, pp. 87-94 (2019) · 8 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 1,086
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nicolas Pröllochs , Stefan Feuerriegel , Bernhard Lutz , Dirk Neumann
Negation Scope Detection for Sentiment Analysis: A Reinforcement Learning Framework for Replicating Human Interpretations
38 Pages · Posted: 17 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 90
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,679
RANK
154,352
4 Citations
149 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Impact of E-Commerce Announcements on the Market Value of Firms

By Mani Subramani and Eric Walden

The Economic Worth of Celebrity Endorsers: An Event Study Analysis

By Jagdish Agrawal and Wagner A. Kamakura

Returns on Investments in Information Technology: A Research Synthesis

By Bruce Dehning and Vernon J. Richardson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies