Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reaction to Mandatory IFRS Adoption: Evidence from Poland

Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 10, Issue 2, pp. 228-248. 2011

18 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2011 Last revised: 22 Nov 2011

Karol Marek Klimczak

Lodz University of Technology

Date Written: February 1, 2011

Abstract

This article analyses the effects of mandatory International Financial Reporting Standards adoption in Poland. Our aim is to determine how market participant reacted to the new accounting standards on the year of the adoption and whether their behaviour changed afterwards. We examine abnormal returns around annual consolidated report publication, and the value relevance of earnings. Event studies show that annual report publication does not produce unexpected information either before, on, or after the adoption. Value relevance estimations produce consistent earnings coefficients for the unexpected earnings model for adopters and non-adopters. Interestingly, IFRS adopters are valued higher before the adoption, but not afterwards. The paper contributes a comprehensive methodology for market reaction studies and offers a range of possible extensions.

Keywords: IFRS, event study, value relevance, accounting regulation

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Klimczak, Karol Marek, Market Reaction to Mandatory IFRS Adoption: Evidence from Poland (February 1, 2011). Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 10, Issue 2, pp. 228-248. 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1752809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , Ann Kie , A Wong &amp; Wu
The Information Environment of China's A and B Shares: Can We Make Sense of the Numbers?
International Journal of Accounting , volume 34 , issue 4 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring Value Relevance in a (Possibly) Inefficient Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Equity Valuation of Accounting Numbers for Security Investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
661
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,699
RANK
91,111
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies