Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Past Success Lead Analysts to Become Overconfident?

Management Science, Forthcoming

INSEAD Working Paper

33 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2011

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Lior Menzly

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 2, 2011

Abstract

This paper provides evidence that analysts who have predicted earnings more accurately than the median analyst in the previous four quarters tend to be simultaneously less accurate and further from the consensus forecast in their subsequent earnings prediction. This phenomenon is economically and statistically meaningful. The results are robust to different estimation techniques and different control variables. Our findings are consistent with an attribution bias that leads analysts who have experienced a short-lived success to become overconfident in their ability to forecast future earnings.

Keywords: Analyst Forecasts, Overconfidence

Suggested Citation:

Hilary, Gilles and Menzly, Lior, Does Past Success Lead Analysts to Become Overconfident? (February 2, 2011). Management Science, Forthcoming, INSEAD Working Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1753771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1753771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Jeffrey S Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Earnings Management in Explaining Apparent Optimism and Inefficiency in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 105 - 146 Posted: 2003-12
Brad Barber , Terrance Odean
Boys will be Boys: Gender, Overconfidence, and Common Stock Investment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 261 - 292 Posted: 2001-02
L Beckman
Effect on Student's Performance on Teachers' and Observers' Attribution of Causality
Journal of Educational Psychology , volume 61 , p. 76 - 82 Posted: 1970
Robert J Bloomfield , D Susan , Mark W Krische , Nelson
Confidence and Investors' Reliance on Disciplined Trading Strategy
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,252
RANK
123,063
3 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies