Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Estimating Conditional Conservatism

Forthcoming, The Accounting Review

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 11-09

56 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2011 Last revised: 3 Dec 2012

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Valeri V. Nikolaev

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

Date Written: November 17, 2011

Abstract

The concept of conditional conservatism has provided new insight into financial reporting and has stimulated considerable research since Basu (1997) developed it. While the concept encapsulated in the adage “anticipate no profits but anticipate all losses” is reasonably clear, estimating it is the subject of some discussion, notably by Dietrich et al. (2007), Givoly et al. (2007), and Ball, Kothari and Nikolaev (2011). Recently, Patatoukas and Thomas (2011) report important evidence of possible bias in firm-level cross-sectional estimates of conditional conservatism (asymmetric earnings timeliness) which they attribute to scale effects. They advise researchers to avoid using conditional conservatism estimates or making inferences from prior research using them, a view we regard as excessively alarmist. Our theoretical and empirical analyses suggest the explanation is a correlated omitted variables problem that can be addressed in a straightforward fashion, for example by fixed-effects regression. We show that cross-sectional correlation between the expected components of earnings and returns confounds the relation between the news components, and biases estimates of how earnings incorporates the news in returns (e.g., timeliness). We also show that the correlation between the expected components of earnings and returns depends on the sign of returns, biasing estimates of asymmetric timeliness. When firm-specific effects in earnings are taken into account, estimates of asymmetric timeliness do not exhibit the bias, are statistically and economically significant (though smaller in magnitude and perhaps more consistent with priors), and behave as a predictable function of market-to-book, size and leverage. It would be surprising if this was not the case. Conditional conservatism accords with the long-standing accounting principle of anticipating losses but not gains, with specific asymmetric accounting rules such as the lower-of-cost-or-market method for inventories and the rules for impairment of long term assets, and with loss recognition practices that occurred prior to the promulgation of formal rules.

Keywords: conditional conservatism, asymmetric timeliness, earnings

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M44, G12, C20

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray and Kothari, S.P. and Nikolaev, Valeri V., On Estimating Conditional Conservatism (November 17, 2011). Forthcoming, The Accounting Review, Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 11-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1758702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1758702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R Ball
Anomalies in relationships between securities' yields and yield-surrogates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 6 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 1978
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Ray Ball , S.P. Kothari , Valeri V. Nikolaev
Econometrics of the Basu Asymmetric Timeliness Coefficient and Accounting Conservatism
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 09-16 Pages: 36 Posted: 13 Jul 2007 Last revised: 19 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in U.K. private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,044
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,087
RANK
17,956
46 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies