Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing Accounting Hypotheses: The Association of Accounting Numbers with Stock Values, 1959-1965

150 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2011

George J. Staubus

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: March 1996

Abstract

This research is aimed at answering accounting questions by measuring the association between alternative accounting numbers and the value of a company's stock. The model includes a financial reporting period and a subsequent stock holding period, with an assumed investment date connecting the two (all historical). The value of a stock at the investment date is the present value of its dividends during the holding period plus the present value (as of the investment date) of its market value at the end of the holding period. For example, the choice of inventory cost flow assumptions (LIFO or FIFO) is tested with matched samples of companies (one sample using LIFO, one using FIFO). The correlation of reported earnings and stock values in the LIFO sample is compared to earnings/value correlation in the FIFO sample Other accounting issues are addressed in a similar manner, as indicated in the table of contents.

As an alternative to measurement of association using least-squares calculations, association was measured using median deviation percentages. For example, if earnings is the accounting number being tested, the median of the deviation of each stock's V/E ratio from the sample mean V/E ratio is taken as the measure of association.

Keywords: earnings, cash flow, current flow, dividends, book value, stock value

Suggested Citation:

Staubus, George J., Testing Accounting Hypotheses: The Association of Accounting Numbers with Stock Values, 1959-1965 (March 1996). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1759597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1759597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
See M Gordon
The Investment, Financing and Valuation of the Corporation Posted: 1962
G R Fisher
Some Factors Influencing Share Prices
The Economic Journal, LXXI , p. 120 - 141 Posted: 1961-03
Crossref
L R Johnson , S Shapiro , J O&apos;meara , Jr
Valuation of Closely Held Stocks for Federal Tax Purposes: Approach to an Objective Method , p. 166 - 195
Crossref
Harkavy
The Relation Between Retained Earnings and Common Stock Prices for Large, Listed Corporations
Journal of Finance , p. 283 - 297 Posted: 1953-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,538
RANK
240,099
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies