Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fast Robust Model Selection in Large Datasets

Journal of the American Statistical Association, 2011

31 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2011

Debbie Dupuis

HEC Montreal

Maria-Pia Victoria-Feser

University of Geneva - HEC

Date Written: October 29, 2010

Abstract

Large datasets are more and more common in many research fields. In particular, in the linear regression context, it is often the case that a huge number of potential covariates are available to explain a response variable, and the first step of a reasonable statistical analysis is to reduce the number of covariates. This can be done in a forward selection procedure that includes the selection of the variable to enter, the decision to retain it or stop the selection and estimation of the augmented model. Least squares plus t-tests can be fast, but the outcome of a forward selection might be suboptimal when there are outliers. In this paper, we propose a complete algorithm for fast robust model selection, including considerations for huge sample sizes. Since simply replacing the classical statistical criteria by robust ones is not computationally possible, we develop simplified robust estimators, selection criteria and testing procedures for linear regression. The robust estimator is a one-step weighted $M$-estimator that can be biased if the covariates are not orthogonal. We show that the bias can be made smaller by iterating the M-estimator one or more steps further. In the variable selection process, we propose a simplified robust criterion based on a robust t-statistic that we compare to a false discovery rate adjusted level. We carry out a simulation study to show the good performance of our approach. We also analyze two datasets and show that the results obtained by our method outperform those from robust LARS and random forests.

Keywords: Linear Regression, Multicollinearity, M-Estimator, Robust T-Test, Partial Correlation, False Discovery Rate, LARS, Random Forests

Suggested Citation:

Dupuis, Debbie and Victoria-Feser, Maria-Pia, Fast Robust Model Selection in Large Datasets (October 29, 2010). Journal of the American Statistical Association, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1759906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
F Abramovich , Y Benjamini , D Donoho , I Johnstone
Adapting to unknown sparsity by controlling the false discovery rate
Annals of Statistics , volume 34 , p. 584 - 653 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H Akaike
Information theory and an extension of the maximum likelihood principle
Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Information Theory , p. 267 - 281 Posted: 1973
Crossref
F Alqallaf , S Van Aelst , V J Yohai , R H Zamar
Propagation of outliers in multivariate data
The Annals of Statistics , volume 37 , p. 311 - 331 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Y Benjamini , Y Gavrilov
A simple forward selection procedure based on false discovery rate control
Annals of Applied Statistics , volume 3 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,599
RANK
596,846
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies