Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Weighted Monte Carlo: A New Technique for Calibrating Asset-Pricing Models

International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2001

Posted: 12 Feb 2011

Marco Avellaneda

New York University (NYU) - Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences; Finance Concepts LLC

Robert Buff

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Craig A. Friedman

State++

Nicolas Grandechamp

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lukasz Kruk

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joshua Newman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2001

Abstract

A general approach for calibrating Monte Carlo models to the market prices of benchmark securities is presented. Starting from a given model for market dynamics (price diffusion, rate diffusion, etc.), the algorithm corrects price-misspecifications and finite-sample effects in the simulation by assigning "probability weights" to the simulated paths. The choice of weights is done by minimizing the Kullback-Leibler relative entropy distance of the posterior measure to the empirical measure. The resulting ensemble prices the given set of benchmark instruments exactly or in the sense of least-squares. We discuss pricing and hedging in the context of these weighted Monte Carlo models. A significant reduction of variance is demonstrated theoretically as well as numerically. Concrete applications to the calibration of stochastic volatility models and term-structure models with up to 40 benchmark instruments are presented. The construction of implied volatility surfaces and forward-rate curves and the pricing and hedging of exotic options are investigated through several examples.

Suggested Citation:

Avellaneda, Marco and Buff, Robert and Friedman, Craig A. and Grandechamp, Nicolas and Kruk, Lukasz and Newman, Joshua, Weighted Monte Carlo: A New Technique for Calibrating Asset-Pricing Models (2001). International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1759452
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,113
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies