Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Neuroaccounting Waiting in the Wings? An Essay

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

Claremont McKenna College Robert Day School of Economics and Finance Research Paper No. 2011-05

42 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2011 Last revised: 1 Dec 2011

Jacob G. Birnberg

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Ananda R. Ganguly

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

Date Written: November 16, 2011

Abstract

This paper discusses a recently published handbook on neuroeconomics (Glimcher et al., 2009H) and extends the discussion to reasons why this newly emerging discipline should be of interest to behavioral accounting researchers. We evaluate the achieved and potential contribution of neuroeconomics to the study of human economic behavior, and examine what behavioral accounting researchers can learn from neuroeconomics and whether we should expect to see a similar sub-field emerge within behavioral accounting in the near future. We conclude that a separate sub-field within behavioral accounting is not likely in the near future due mostly to practical reasons. However, the behavioral accounting researcher would do well to follow research in this discipline closely, and behavioral accountants in the near future are likely to collaborate with neuroscientists and neuroeconomists on questions of mutual interest.

Keywords: Behavioral Accounting, Behavioral Economics, Neuroaccounting, Neuroeconomics

JEL Classification: D01, D03, D81, D83, D84, D87, M41

Suggested Citation:

Birnberg, Jacob G. and Ganguly, Ananda Roop, Is Neuroaccounting Waiting in the Wings? An Essay (November 16, 2011). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Claremont McKenna College Robert Day School of Economics and Finance Research Paper No. 2011-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1759460 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1759460
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
J R Alford , J R Hibbing , T Lohrenz , A Harvey , R Montague
Generosity is its own reward Posted: 2009
Sudipta Basu , John Dickhaut , Gary Hecht , Kristy L. Towry , Gregory B. Waymire
Recordkeeping Alters Economic History by Promoting Reciprocity
Pages: 60 Posted: 8 Nov 2007 Last revised: 22 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Basu , M Kirk , G Waymire
Memory, transaction records, and the Wealth of Nations. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 8 , p. 895 - 917 Posted: 2009
Crossref
T Baumgartner , M Heinrichs , A Vonlanthen , U Fischbacher , E Fehr
Oxytocin Shapes the Neural Circuitry of Trust
Neuron , volume 58 , p. 639 - 650 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
696
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,646
RANK
85,245
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies