Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Selection of Balanced Scorecard Targets and Weights in a Collaborative Setting

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 29, No. 1, 2010

Posted: 18 Feb 2011 Last revised: 25 Jan 2018

Hemantha Herath

Brock University

Wayne G. Bremser

Villanova University

Jacob G. Birnberg

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Date Written: Decekber 1, 2010

Abstract

Information asymmetries may create problems in developing both the balanced scorecard (BSC) targets and weights. In practice, the process of assigning weights to performance measures can be challenging in terms of reaching a consensus between top management and divisional managers. In this research, we address the issues of target and weight selection using a collaborative decision-making model. Most of the previous research related to performance measurement has assumed self-interested agents. When weights are assigned subjectively, there is evidence in the literature of common-measure bias leading to BSC disagreement (conflict). We contribute to the literature by considering actor preferences in a novel approach that permits the parties jointly to determine optimal (or approximately optimal) BSC targets and weights.

Suggested Citation:

Herath, Hemantha and Bremser, Wayne G. and Birnberg, Jacob G., Joint Selection of Balanced Scorecard Targets and Weights in a Collaborative Setting (Decekber 1, 2010). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 29, No. 1, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1762675
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Asymmetric & Private Information eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies