Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Markets, Fees and Production: Towards an Integrated View of Empirical Audit Research

Journal of Accounting Literature, Volume 29 (2010), 167-215

73 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2011 Last revised: 6 Jun 2013

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Michael De Martinis

Monash University

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: February 23, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to integrate research on audit markets, fees and production. We present a model of the components that determine audit fees and production [hours]. We observe that, overall, knowledge is concentrated on certain aspects of the model and it is not well-integrated. In particular, little is known about the labor market for the factors of audit production; and while there is extensive research in audit fees, what is known is often conditional and driven by the context of the studies. Further, and at a more general level, the limited focus of prior research omits certain elements of the audit market and audit production that could influence how audit fee research should be interpreted. The paper develops an integrated view that will help to interpret existing research and guide future researchers. We use the integrated view of audit research to derive some overall conclusions concerning our current understanding of audit markets and to suggest some directions for future research.

Keywords: Auditing, Audit markets, Audit fees, Audit production, Audit research

JEL Classification: D21, D43, G39, J24, J44, K22, L84, M41

Suggested Citation:

Causholli, Monika and De Martinis, Michael and Hay, David and Knechel, Warren Robert, Audit Markets, Fees and Production: Towards an Integrated View of Empirical Audit Research (February 23, 2011). Journal of Accounting Literature, Volume 29 (2010), 167-215, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1768199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
245 References
Abdel Khalik , A R
The jointness of audit fees and demand for MAS: A self-selection analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , p. 295 - 322 Posted: 1990
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why do private companies demand auditing? A case for organizational loss of control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Abidin , V Beattie , A Goodacre
Audit market structure, fees, and choice in a period of structural change: Evidence from the UK -1998-2003
The British Accounting Review , volume 42 , p. 187 - 206 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Ahmed , M K Goyal
A comparative study of pricing of audit services in emerging economies
International Journal of Auditing , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,166
RANK
16,076
23 Citations
245 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Recommended Papers

Audit Fees: A Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Supply and Demand Attributes

By David Hay, Warren Robert Knechel, ...

Litigation Risk and Audit Fees: Evidence from UK Firms Cross-Listed on U.S. Exchanges

By Ananth Seetharaman, Ferdinand A. Gul, ...

The Contribution of Internal Audit as a Determinant of External Audit Fees and Factors Influencing this Contribution

By William L. Felix, Audrey A. Gramling, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies