Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simulating Fundamental Analysis of a Firm Using a VECX Model

21 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2011

Otavio Ribeiro de Medeiros

Universidade de Brasília (UnB) - Campus Universitario Darcy Ribeiro

José Bonifácio De Araújo Júnior

University of Brasilia

Bernardus Ferdinandus Nazar Van Doornik

Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil - Central Bank of Brazil

Date Written: February 25, 2011

Abstract

The study aims at simulating and forecasting a company’s stock returns and prices by a fundamentalist analysis process based on a Vector Error Correction with Exogenous Variables (VECX) econometric model. To achieve this, we selected relevant fundamentalist indicators and specified a model capable of simulating a fundamentalist analysis of a Brazilian publicly listed company, Sadia S/A. The VECX model statistical validation was carried out by performing unit root tests, cointegration tests, Granger causality tests, correlation analysis, impulse-response functions, and variance decomposition. Data taken from the firm’s financial statements were used to compute seven fundamentalist indicators, which were defined as the model’s endogenous variables. The exogenous variables included in the model are the Brazilian Stock Market (Bovespa) Index return, the Brazilian GDP, the Brazilian basic interest rate (Selic), the US$/BRL exchange rate, and the international price of commodities poultry and corn. The final version of the estimated model takes into account cointegration relationships among the endogenous variables. Based on this model, the Company’s ex-post forecasts of the fundamentalist indicators were obtained, as well as its stock return and price forecasts. The results show that the simulation by a VECX econometric model is robust as seen by the quality of the forecasts obtained. Finally, a prognostic fundamental analysis was carried out based on the forecasts.

Keywords: Fundamental Analysis, Econometric Model, Forecasts, Sadia, VARX, VECX

JEL Classification: C10, C13, C32, C51, C53, G12, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

de Medeiros, Otavio Ribeiro and De Araújo Júnior, José Bonifácio and Doornik, Bernardus Ferdinandus Nazar Van, Simulating Fundamental Analysis of a Firm Using a VECX Model (February 25, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1769634 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1769634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Taxa Bacen , Selic
, p. 25 - 32
J R Barbee , W C Mukherji , S Raines , G A
Do sales-price and debt-equity explain stock returns better than book-market and firm size?
Financial Analysts Journal , issue 2 , p. 56 - 60 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Z Bodie , A Kane , A Marcus
BOVESPA. Índice Bovespa: Definição e metodologia Posted: 2001
_________ , Sistema De Divulgação Interna
Available in <www.bovespa.com.br> Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,706
RANK
308,851
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Asset Pricing When Returns are Nonnormal: Fama-French Factors vs. Higher-Order Systematic Co-Moments

By Y. Peter Chung, Herb Johnson, ...

Asset Pricing When Returns are Nonnormal: Fama-French Factors vs. Higher-Order Systematic Co-Moments

By Y. Peter Chung, Herb Johnson, ...

Conditional Coskewness and Asset Pricing

By Daniel R. Smith

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies