Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Fee Stickiness

39 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2011 Last revised: 13 Feb 2013

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Zhizi (Janice) Zhang

University of Auckland

Date Written: February 11, 2013

Abstract

We examine audit fee stickiness applying an approach from management accounting research. We explore the price behavior of audit fees in response to changes in the variables that are usually seen as their determinants, such as size, complexity, and risk in order to examine audit fee stickiness and the competitiveness of the market for audit services. We find that audit fees are sticky – audit fees do not immediately or fully adjust to changes in their determinants. Audit fees also respond to changes leading to an increase more quickly than they respond to changes leading to a decrease. The difference between positive and negative fee adjustments declines over periods longer than one year, and is no longer significant when four year periods are considered. This suggests that the audit market is competitive, at least in the medium term. Our study helps to explain why the audit fee model does not fully explain the level of audit fees; why audit fees are more likely to be too high than too low; and why auditor switches are commonly associated with larger changes in audit fees.

Keywords: Audit market, Audit fees, Cost behavior, Stickiness

JEL Classification: L41, L89, M41

Suggested Citation:

de Villiers, Charl and Hay, David and Zhang, Zhizi (Janice), Audit Fee Stickiness (February 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1771045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1771045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S M Albring , M J Keane
The Effect of Internal Control Weaknesses and their Remediation on Audit Fees Posted: 2010
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M C Anderson , R D Banker , R Huang , S Janakiraman , N
Cost behavior and fundamental analysis of SG&A costs
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Abhijit Barua , Clive Lennox , Aneesh Raghunandan
Are Audit Fees Discounted in Initial Year Audit Engagements?
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 56 Pages · Posted: 6 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 401
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
697
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,256
RANK
85,079
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Fees: A Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Supply and Demand Attributes

By David Hay, Warren Robert Knechel, ...

Litigation Risk and Audit Fees: Evidence from UK Firms Cross-Listed on U.S. Exchanges

By Ananth Seetharaman, Ferdinand A. Gul, ...

The Contribution of Internal Audit as a Determinant of External Audit Fees and Factors Influencing this Contribution

By William L. Felix, Audrey A. Gramling, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies