Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Funded Replication: Valuing with Stochastic Funding

26 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2011 Last revised: 14 Apr 2011

Christian P. Fries

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Mathematics; DZ Bank AG

Date Written: February 20, 2011

Abstract

Funding costs are the costs to a (risky) institution of providing and managing its future cash flows in excess of, say, some risk free funding. For a single deterministic cash flow with maturity T these costs are essentially given by the ratio of the risky bond and the risk free bond. They can be expressed by a "funding spread", which represents an additional interest rate.

For stochastic cash flows funding can be interpreted as a dynamic hedging of future cash flows. The problem can also lead to a complex portfolio problem, see http://ssrn.com/abstract=1609587.

We will consider two possible valuations for a product consisting of future cash flows: - The valuation which ignores any funding cost and calculates a liquidation value of the product. This valuation could be termed "mark-to-marked".

- The valuation including all funding costs from managing all future cash flows. This valuation could be termed "funded replication".

In this paper we will thoroughly introduce the valuation with funding, i.e. the "funded replication". We will also consider partial funding costs. For products with liquid market price we will derive a single consistent valuation: Having a liquid market price offers the option of canceling all future funding costs. This option can be valued.

The key points of this paper can be summarized as follows: - The valuation of a derivative including funding corresponds to the valuation of a quanto product. - Even a collateralized deal may bear some funding costs. These funding costs come from a correlation effect analog to the quanto adjustment. - A liquid instrument having a market value represents the option to cancel all future funding. This option can be valued.

Keywords: Discounting, Valuation, Funding, Collateral, Mark to Market, Held to Maturity

JEL Classification: C15, G13

Suggested Citation:

Fries, Christian P., Funded Replication: Valuing with Stochastic Funding (February 20, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1772503 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1772503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Marco: Two Bianchetti , Curves
One Price: Pricing & Hedging Interest Rate Derivatives Using Different Yield Curves for Discounting and Forwarding Posted: 2009-01
Christian P Fries
Mathematical Finance. Theory, Modeling, Implementation Posted: 2007
Christian P. Fries
Discounting Revisited: Valuation Under Funding, Counterparty Risk and Collateralization
Pages: 34 Posted: 17 May 2010 Last revised: 14 Mar 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Massimo Morini , Andrea Prampolini
Risky Funding: A Unified Framework for Counterparty and Liquidity Charges
Pages: 15 Posted: 2 Sep 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,012
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,979
RANK
51,486
6 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Risky Funding: A Unified Framework for Counterparty and Liquidity Charges

By Massimo Morini and Andrea Prampolini

Discounting Revisited: Valuation Under Funding, Counterparty Risk and Collateralization

By Christian P. Fries

Funding, Liquidity, Credit and Counterparty Risk: Links and Implications

By Antonio Castagna

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies