Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drawdown-at-Risk Monte Carlo Optimization

12 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2011

Andreas Steiner

Andreas Steiner Consulting GmbH

Date Written: March 10, 2011

Abstract

We present a portfolio construction approach with two interesting non-standard features: First, the risk measure used is “drawdown-at-risk”, an interesting concept combining attractive features of drawdown and value-at-risk measures. Second, the efficient frontier is calculated from “random portfolios”, i.e. portfolios containing random constituent weights. We call this “Monte Carlo optimization”. Both features would deserve a detailed analysis. The goal of this note is to provide an overview and illustrate the potential of the approach with two examples: Asset allocation in a small universe consisting of three assets (Indian stocks and bonds as well as gold in INR) and drawdown optimization on single-stock level across the full S&P 500 universe.

Keywords: Drawdown, Risk, Monte Carlo Portfolio, Construction, Optimization

Suggested Citation:

Steiner, Andreas, Drawdown-at-Risk Monte Carlo Optimization (March 10, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1782664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1782664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Mohammad Reza Tavakoli Baghdadabad , Paskalis Glabadanidis
Evaluation of Malaysian mutual funds in the maximum drawdown risk measure framework
International Journal of Managerial Finance , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 247 Posted: 2013
Crossref
William Thornton Shaw
Portfolio Optimization for VAR, CVaR, Omega and Utility with General Return Distributions: A Monte Carlo Approach for Long-Only and Bounded Short Portfolios with Optional Robustness and a Simplified Approach to Covariance Matching
29 Pages · Posted: 3 Jun 2011 · Downloads: 2,397
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,724
RANK
104,934
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies