Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are CFOs’ Trades More Informative than CEOs’ Trades?

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2011 Last revised: 25 Mar 2011

Weimin Wang

Saint Louis University

Yong-Chul Shin

University of Massachusetts Boston

Bill B. Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Date Written: March 15, 2011

Abstract

We investigate whether trades made by CFOs reveal more information about future stock returns than those by CEOs. We find that CFOs earn statistically and economically higher abnormal returns following their purchases of company shares than CEOs. During 1992-2002, CFOs earned an average 12-month excess return that is 5% higher than that by CEOs. The superior performance by CFOs occurs notwithstanding controls for risk factors, and persists even after their trades are publicly disclosed. Further analysis shows that CFO purchases are associated with more positive future earnings surprises than CEO purchases, suggesting that CFOs incorporate better information about future earnings.

Keywords: insider trade, CFO, CEO

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Weimin and Shin, Yong-Chul and Francis, Bill B., Are CFOs’ Trades More Informative than CEOs’ Trades? (March 15, 2011). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1787482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M Geiger , D North
Does Hiring a New CFO Change Things? An Investigation of Changes in Discretionary Accruals
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 781 - 809 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Graham , C Harvey
The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence from the Field
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 60 , p. 187 - 243 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Hu , T Noe
Insider Trading, Costly Monitoring, and Managerial Incentives
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 25 , p. 679 - 714 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Jaffe
Special Information and Insider Trading
Journal of Business , volume 47 , p. 410 - 428 Posted: 1974
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
654
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,304
RANK
92,373
2 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Profits to Insider Trading: a Performance-Evaluation Perspective

By Leslie A. Jeng, Richard J. Zeckhauser, ...

Estimating the Returns to Insider Trading: A Performance-Evaluation Perspective

By Leslie A. Jeng, Richard J. Zeckhauser, ...

Overreaction and Insider Trading: Evidence from Growth and Value Portfolios

By Michael S. Rozeff and Mir A. Zaman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies