Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Model Selection Procedures and Their Error-Reduction Targets

16 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2011 Last revised: 10 Apr 2011

John R. Doyle

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Date Written: April 7, 2011

Abstract

This brief note compares model selection procedures in regression. On the one hand there is an observed error reduction ratio that we calculate from the data: h = SSE2/SSE1, where SSE1 and SSE2 are the sums of squared errors in Models 1 and 2, respectively. On the other hand there is a target ratio, which we call H, which is set by the model selection procedure via an expression involving the numbers of variables and observations. If h < H the procedure accepts Model 2 as superior to Model 1. The aim of this note is to derive expressions for each model selection procedure that have the form H = 1/(1x), where x varies from procedure to procedure. These common-form expressions for H allow us to compare model selection procedures transparently.

The procedures we examine are: Akaike’s Information Criterion (AIC), Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC), Amemiya’s Prediction Criterion (PC), change in R2 (ΔR2), adjusted R2, and adjusted Rf2 which we have created as a simple generalization of adjusted R2. We show that it is less liberal than adjusted R2 and relates closely to AIC and PC: in so doing it provides fresh insight into their properties.

Keywords: Model Selection, AIC, BIC, Prediction Criterion, Adjusted R2, F-Test, Error Reduction Ratio

JEL Classification: C52, C51, C50, C10, C00

Suggested Citation:

Doyle, John, Model Selection Procedures and Their Error-Reduction Targets (April 7, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1789907 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1789907
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,038
RANK
218,958
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies