Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Real Activity Management

45 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2011 Last revised: 21 Jul 2019

Daniel A. Cohen

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Shail Pandit

University of Illinois at Chicago; University of Illinois at Chicago

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Tzachi Zach

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 17, 2019

Abstract

To test hypotheses about earnings management many studies investigate managers’ manipulation of real activities (real earnings management, REM). Tests using measures of abnormal REM hinge critically on the measurement of normal real activities. Yet there is no systematic evidence on the statistical properties of commonly-used REM measures. We provide such evidence by documenting the Type I error rates and power of the test of the REM measures commonly used in the literature. We find these measures are often mis-specified with Type I error rates that deviate from the nominal significance level of the test, especially in samples of firms with extreme performance or firm characteristics. We also compare the specification and power of traditional REM measures with performance-matched REM measures to see if the latter provide better specified and more powerful tests. While performance-matched REM measures are not immune from mis-specification in all settings, in general, they are better specified under the null hypothesis (i.e., in terms of Type I errors) than are traditional REM measures. Comparisons of the power to detect abnormal REM reveal that neither approach, traditional or performance-matched, is consistently more powerful than the other in terms of detecting abnormal REM ranging from 1% to 10% of (lagged) total assets. The absence of a dominant approach to measure abnormal REM leads us to recommend that future researchers report results using both traditional and performance-matched measures so that readers are able to clearly assess the reliability of the inferences drawn about the magnitude and significance of the abnormal REM documented in a given study.

Keywords: Real activity management; real earnings management; earnings management; real activity models, test specification, Type I errors, Type II errors, power of the test, meet or beat, earnings benchmarks, model specification

JEL Classification: M41, C12, C15, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Daniel A. and Pandit, Shailendra and Pandit, Shailendra and Wasley, Charles E. and Zach, Tzachi, Measuring Real Activity Management (July 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1792639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1792639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
W Alissa , S B Bonsall , K Koharki , M W Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
Crossref
W Baber , P Fairfield , J Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
B Badertscher
Overvaluation and the choice of alternative earnings management mechanisms
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1491 - 1518 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B Barber , J Lyon
Detecting abnormal operating performance: The empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 41 , p. 359 - 399 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,795
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,282
RANK
10,846
14 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies