Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Return Volatility Surrounding Management Earnings Forecasts

52 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2011

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: March 28, 2011

Abstract

The primary aim of this study is to investigate the stock return volatility surrounding management earnings forecasts. Disclosure by managers of expected earnings are particularly important communications, and as such, it is important to understand the capital market implications surrounding them. In doing so, the research questions are essentially aimed at examining the stock return volatility, first, at the release of a management earnings forecast, and second, at the eventual announcement of the realised earnings for that period. The first test investigates whether there is an increase in volatility surrounding a management earnings forecast for those firms who release them compared to a matched-firm sample of firms without a management earnings forecast at that date, and then further examines that result based on different forecast antecedents and forecast characteristics. In brief, the evidence using the Garman and Klass (1980) ‘best analytic scale-invariant estimator’ of volatility in an Australian context, between 1993 and 2003, finds that stock return volatility is greater for bad news forecasts, forecasts of low specificity, and forecasts issued by firms perceived ex ante as being of lower credibility using both permutation analysis and modelling daily volatility.

Keywords: Disclosure, Management Earnings Forecasts, Stock Return Volatility

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Andrew B., Stock Return Volatility Surrounding Management Earnings Forecasts (March 28, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1797375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1797375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
G A Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K J Arrow
Higher education as a filter
Journal of Public Economics , volume 2 , p. 193 - 216 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Continuous Disclosure: The Australian Experience Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Andrew B. Jackson
Do Management Earnings Forecasts Resolve Uncertainty around Earnings Announcements?
28 Pages · Posted: 18 Apr 2011 · Downloads: 198
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
W Jane Cheung , Andrew B Jackson
Chief Executive Officer departures and market uncertainty
Australian Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 279 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Andrew B. Jackson , Gerry Gallery , Maria C. A. Balatbat , Steven Cahan
The impact of litigation risk on the strategic timing of management earnings forecasts
Accounting & Finance , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 467 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Hao-Chang Sung , Shirley J. Ho
Disclosure strategies for management earnings forecasts: The role of managerial compensation structures, overoptimism, and effort
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 100351 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,354
RANK
219,707
5 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies