Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negative Special Items and Future Earnings: Expense Transfer or Real Improvements?

56 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2011

William M. Cready

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Thomas J. Lopez

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Craig A. Sisneros

Oklahoma State University

Date Written: March 23, 2011

Abstract

Burgstahler et al. (2002) evaluate special items, a component of earnings with time series properties that differ from recurring earnings, to determine whether the market correctly prices these transitory items. In addition, they investigate the implications of special items for future earnings and report evidence consistent with the notion that firms use negative special items to accelerate the recognition of future expenses into the current period. That is, negative special items serve as an “inter-period transfer” device. We examine additional predictions suggested by the inter-period transfer hypothesis. We find that earnings increase in post-special item quarters beyond the four quarters considered in Burgstahler et al. (2002). In addition, we find that the future earnings increases over the subsequent 16 quarters amount to over 130 percent of the negative special item reported in quarter t and over 40 percent of these increases are realized in operating cash flows. These earnings increases are greater for restructuring charges than for asset write-downs or goodwill impairment charges. Such patterns are more consistent with negative special items, and in particular restructuring charges, signaling real future performance improvements (i.e., performance improvement hypothesis) rather than inter-period expense transfer (i.e., inter-period transfer hypothesis).

Keywords: Negative special items, earnings management, Restructuring

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cready, William M. and Lopez, Thomas J. and Sisneros, Craig A., Negative Special Items and Future Earnings: Expense Transfer or Real Improvements? (March 23, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1799990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1799990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R Atiase , D Platt , S Tse
Operational restructuring charges and post-restructuring performance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , p. 493 - 522 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Ball , E Bartov
How naïve is the stock market's use of earnings information?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , p. 319 - 356 Posted: 1996
Crossref
W Beaver , M Mcnichols , K Nelson
An alternative interpretation of the discontinuity in earnings distributions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 525 - 556 Posted: 2006
Crossref
V Bernard , J Thomas
Evidence that stock prices do not fully reflect the implications of current earnings for future earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 13 , p. 305 - 340 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,640
RANK
188,511
3 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Gaap Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings

By Mark T Bradshaw, Matthew Moberg, ...

The Predictive Value of Expenses Excluded from 'Pro Forma' Earnings

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Russell J. Lundholm, ...

Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings

By Neil Bhattacharya, Ervin L. Black, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies