Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quantitative Methods in Accounting Research

Warsaw School of Economics – Department of Applied Econometrics Working Paper No. 6-09

16 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2011

Marek Gruszczyński

SGH Warsaw School of Economics - Institute of Econometrics

Date Written: June 1, 2009

Abstract

Quantitative methods are in frequent use in modern accounting research. The evidence may be found e.g. in the journals like “Journal of Accounting Research”, “European Accounting Review”, “Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting” or in the Accounting Research Network in SSRN base. Paper presents a brief survey of research areas and statistical-econometric approaches in accounting research. Particular reference goes to research on corporate disclosure. Methodological component of the paper includes remarks on the use of binary response models with choice-based and matched samples as well as comments on the sample selection approaches.

Keywords: accounting research, corporate disclosure, binary response, choice-based samples

JEL Classification: M41, C31, C35

Suggested Citation:

Gruszczyński, Marek, Quantitative Methods in Accounting Research (June 1, 2009). Warsaw School of Economics – Department of Applied Econometrics Working Paper No. 6-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1803638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1803638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Advances of Quantitative Analysis of Finance and Accounting , volume 1 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R M Bushman , J D Piotroski , A J Smith
What determines corporate transparency
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 Posted: 2004-05
Crossref
Donald P. Cram , Vijay Karan , Iris Stuart
Three Threats to Validity of Choice-Based and Matched Sample Studies in Accounting Research
Pages: 54 Posted: 5 Jan 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lennox Francis
Selection models in accounting research Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,253
RANK
41,785
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies