Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Protection and Disclosure: Quantitative Evidence

Warsaw School of Economics – Department of Applied Econometrics Working Paper No. 6-10

19 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2011

Marek Gruszczyński

SGH Warsaw School of Economics - Institute of Econometrics

Date Written: June 1, 2010

Abstract

Paper surveys research in the area of measuring the level of accounting disclosure and of exploring various issues associated with accounting disclosure. In particular, the question of how the disclosure is connected to investor protection is investigated. This issue is shown in the context of the countries’ legal systems and in the relation to corporate governance. New results presented in the paper include composition and application of Polish Corporate Disclosure Index (PCDI). PCDI has been evaluated for 48 companies listed on Warsaw Stock Exchange for the years 2005, 2006 and 2007. Subsequently PCDI was used as the regressor variable in a number of models explaining various investor protection measures. The outcome of this research is that PCDI is significantly associated with the variables representing investor protection. Higher values of PCDI are linked with the lower variability of stock prices, with the better the category of auditor as well as with the better management and the better perception of the company by the market.

Keywords: accounting disclosure, corporate disclosure, investor protection, accounting research

JEL Classification: C10, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gruszczyński, Marek, Investor Protection and Disclosure: Quantitative Evidence (June 1, 2010). Warsaw School of Economics – Department of Applied Econometrics Working Paper No. 6-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1806003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1806003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
C A Adams , N Kuasirikun
A comparative analysis of corporate reporting on ethical issues by UK and German chemical and pharmaceutical companies
The European Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 79 Posted: 2000
Crossref
N A A Ahmad-Zaluki , W Wan-Hussin
Corporate governance and earnings forecasts accuracy
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 67
Crossref
S Arping , Z Sautner
The effect of corporate governance regulation on transparency: evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of Posted: 2002
Ben Ali , C , I Latrous
Disclosure quality and corporate governance in a context of controlling vs. minority shareholder agency conflict Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,611
RANK
318,538
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Financial Performance of Companies in Poland

By Marek Gruszczyński

Corporate Governance Ratings and the Performance of Listed Companies in Poland

By Marek Gruszczyński

Financial Distress of Companies in Poland

By Marek Gruszczyński

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies