Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dissecting Earnings Recognition Timeliness

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 11-18

48 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2011 Last revised: 21 May 2013

Ryan T. Ball

The Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan

Peter D. Easton

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 2013

Abstract

We dissect the portion of stock price change of the fiscal year that is recognized in reported accounting earnings of the year. We call this portion earnings recognition timeliness (ERT). The emphasis in our dissection is on empirical identification of two fundamental precepts of financial accounting: (1) the matching principle, which is manifested in the recognition of expenses in the same period as the related benefits (i.e., sales revenue) accrue; and, (2) recognition of expenses in the current period due to changes in expectations regarding earnings of future periods (we refer to these expenses as the expectations element of expenses). Although the expectations element has implicitly been at the core of much of the recent empirical literature on asymmetry in the earnings/return relation, it has not been explicitly identified. This recent literature is based on the premise that bad news about the future leads to more recognition of expenses in the current period (such as write-downs) whereas good news about the future tends to have a much lesser effect on expenses of the current period; asymmetry in the expenses/return relation is captured implicitly via the observation of asymmetry in the earnings/return relation (i.e., asymmetry in ERT). Since the ERT reflects the relation between sales revenue and returns, matched expenses and returns, as well as the relation between the expectations element of expenses and returns, a focus on the expectations element may lead to sharper inferences. Our straightforward empirical procedure permits a focus on this element.

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ryan T. and Easton, Peter D., Dissecting Earnings Recognition Timeliness (May 2013). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 11-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1808988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1808988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
11 Citations
Pervin K. Shroff , Ramgopal Venkataraman , Suning Zhang
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings: An Event‐Based Approach*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 215 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Vivek Raval , Sean Wang
Asymmetric Timeliness and the Resolution of Investor Disagreement and Uncertainty at Earnings Announcements
Accounting Review (Forthcoming), UNC Kenan-Flagler Research Paper, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 162 · 62 Pages · Posted: 28 Jul 2014 · Last revised: 2 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 1,478
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zhuo (June) Cheng , Jing Fang , Linda A. Myers
The Differential Timeliness of Stock Price in Incorporating Bad versus Good News and the Earnings-Return Asymmetry
The Accounting Review · 62 Pages · Posted: 2 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 14 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 438
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Haizhen Lin , Stephen G. Ryan , Ayung Tseng
Measuring Asymmetric Timeliness using Industry Output Volume Changes as the Proxy for News
Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 19-38, NYU Stern School of Business · 49 Pages · Posted: 2 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 138
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,221
RANK
31,759
11 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies