Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation Between Expected Returns, Realized Returns, and Firm Risk Characteristics

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 17 Apr 2011

Christine Botosan

Financial Accounting Standards Board

Marlene Plumlee

University of Utah - School of Accounting

Jennifer Chen

University of Missouri-St. Louis

Date Written: March 16, 2011

Abstract

Existing literature employs two approaches to assess the validity of alternative proxies for firm-specific cost of equity capital. One approach relies on the theoretical link between future realized returns and cost of equity capital, while the second approach relies on the theoretical link between cost of equity capital and priced risk. The results of these two streams of literature are conflicting. The first approach provides no support for the construct validity of any of the cost of equity capital proxies examined, while the second approach provides strong support for certain proxies. In this paper, we assess the construct validity of twelve alternative proxies, and realized returns before and after controlling for news. Using both approaches, we find support for the construct validity of two proxies (rDIV and rPEG), and show that prior research fails to demonstrate the theoretical link between several of the proxies and future realized returns due to empirical misspecification. Based on our evidence, we recommend that researchers requiring a valid proxy for cost of equity capital employ either rDIV or rPEG, and we caution against the use of realized returns to proxy for cost of equity capital before or after controlling for cash flow news.

Keywords: implied cost of capital, expected returns, realized returns, cash flow news

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G31

Suggested Citation:

Botosan, Christine and Plumlee, Marlene A. and Chen, Jennifer, The Relation Between Expected Returns, Realized Returns, and Firm Risk Characteristics (March 16, 2011). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1809082
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,863
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Intertemporal Firm Choice & Growth, Investment, Financing, & Capacity eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies