Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Analysts’ Access to Management’s Private Information and the Precision of Publicly Available Information on Analyst Forecast Accuracy

44 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2011 Last revised: 29 Jun 2013

Sami Keskek

Florida State University

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Marjorie K. Shelley

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

We posit and find that the importance of analyst and forecast characteristics for analyst forecast accuracy varies with analysts’ access to management’s private information and with the precision of publicly available information. In particular, more experienced analysts and All-Star analysts do not maintain their superior forecast accuracy and analysts employed by large brokerage houses perform even worse than other analysts following the enactment of Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). In addition, we find a decrease in the importance of effort, the number of industries and firms followed, days elapsed since the last forecast, forecast horizon, and forecast boldness post-Reg FD. The decrease in the importance of most of these characteristics is greater when the precision of publicly available information is low. Our results suggest that the positive effects of experience, effort, brokerage house size, All-Star status for forecast accuracy pre-Reg FD were due to the information advantage these analysts enjoyed, rather than their ability to generate private information. In contrast, following the enactment of Reg FD, the importance of prior forecast accuracy increases and this increase is even greater when the precision of publicly available information is low. This suggests that prior forecast accuracy is related to analysts’ ability to generate private information. Because prior evidence suggests that investors consider analyst and forecast characteristics when they evaluate the relevance of analyst forecasts, our findings can help investors to better assess and use the information in analyst forecasts.

Keywords: Analyst forecast errors, Analyst disagreement, Information uncertainty, Private information

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Keskek, Sami and Myers, Linda A. and Omer, Thomas C. and Shelley, Marjorie, The Effects of Analysts’ Access to Management’s Private Information and the Precision of Publicly Available Information on Analyst Forecast Accuracy (June 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1809200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1809200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J Affleck-Graves , L R Davis , R R Mendenhall
Forecasts of earnings per share: Possible sources of analyst superiority and bias
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 501 - 517 Posted: 1990
Crossref
M S G Bagnoli , Y Watts , Zhang
Reg-FD and the competitiveness of All-Star analysts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 27 , p. 295 - 316 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Barniv , M Myring , W Thomas
The association between the legal and financial reporting environments and forecast performance of individual analysts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 4 , p. 727 - 758 Posted: 2005
Crossref
O E Barron , O Kim , S C Lim , D E Stevens
Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
Load more
2 Citations
Maria Dimitriou
The Accounting Treatment of Firms’ Valuation Based on IFRS and Greek GAAP for Appropriate Investment Decision Making Using ICT
Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF:0,58), 25: 150-151, 2018 · 40 Pages · Posted: 17 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 82
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maria Dimitriou
A Philosophical Research Paradigm and a Theoretical Perspective of a Valuation Report in the Beverage Sector
Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF: 0,47), Spring,7:38, 2019 · 34 Pages · Posted: 16 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 84
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,136
RANK
238,367
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies