Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Management Earnings Forecasts Resolve Uncertainty around Earnings Announcements?

28 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2011

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: April 14, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of a management earnings forecast is to forecast the eventual earnings figure released to the market at the earnings announcement date. To the extent that management earnings forecasts should reduce periodic shocks by reducing information asymmetry, stock return volatility is expected to be lower for firms who release them surrounding the earnings announcement date. Specifically, this paper asks the question whether stock return volatility surrounding earnings announcements is lower for firms who do release a management earnings forecast compared to those who do not, contingent on forecast accuracy. The empirical results show otherwise, specifically that for firms issuing a management earnings forecast, which is ex post accurate, do not experience stock return volatility at any statistically significantly lower levels. This result is interpreted that old news is still news.

Keywords: Disclosure, Management Earnings Forecasts, Earnings Announcements, Stock Return Volatility

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Andrew B., Do Management Earnings Forecasts Resolve Uncertainty around Earnings Announcements? (April 14, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1810190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1810190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
D Acker
Stock return volatility and dividend announcements
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 12 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 1999
R Aggarwal , &amp; P Rivoli
Seasonal and day-of-the-week effects in four emerging stock markets
The Financial Review , volume 24 , p. 541 - 550 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R Ball , &amp; P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
W Beaver
The information content of annual earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,214
RANK
350,629
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies