Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of ‘Why Do EPS Forecast Error and Dispersion Not Vary with Scale? Implications for Analyst and Managerial Behavior’

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Chicago Booth Accounting Research Center Research Paper

14 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2011

Ryan T. Ball

The Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan

Date Written: January 31, 2011

Abstract

Cheong and Thomas (2011) provide a new perspective on the behavior of the distribution of EPS forecast error magnitudes as a function of share price. Specifically, they explore several economic-based explanations, related to analyst and manager behavior, in order to understand why measures of EPS forecast error variation do not appear to vary with share price. In this discussion, I explore two additional issues, unrelated to the behavior of managers and analysts, which may significantly contribute to the observed lack of scale variation in EPS forecast error magnitudes in the United States: (1) EPS data in I/B/E/S are reported to the nearest penny, which may render detection of scale variation extremely difficult in a sample of U.S. firms, and (2) there are differences between the measurement of EPS forecast error variation in Cheong and Thomas relative to prior literature. I provided evidence that both issues confound the interpretation of the lack of scale variation observed in U.S. firms and have strong implications for future research exploring EPS forecast error magnitudes.

Keywords: Analyst Forecast, Forecast Error, Dispersion, Price Deflation

JEL Classification: G10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ryan T., Discussion of ‘Why Do EPS Forecast Error and Dispersion Not Vary with Scale? Implications for Analyst and Managerial Behavior’ (January 31, 2011). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Chicago Booth Accounting Research Center Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1823542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William R Baber , Sok-Hyon Kang
The impact of split adjusting and rounding on analyst forecast error calculations
Accounting Horizons , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 277 - 289 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Foong Cheong , Jacob Soon , Thomas
Why do EPS forecast error and dispersion not vary with scale? Implications for analyst and managerial behavior
Journal of Accounting Research x Posted: 2011
Crossref
Daniel A Cohen , Thomas Z Lys
A Note on Analysts' Earnings Forecast Errors Distribution
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 147 - 164 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Tingting Liu , Danni Tu
Earnings growth and acquisition returns: Do investors gamble in the takeover market?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), forthcoming · 72 Pages · Posted: 25 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 331
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,076
RANK
28,004
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Gaap Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings

By Mark T Bradshaw, Matthew Moberg, ...

The Predictive Value of Expenses Excluded from 'Pro Forma' Earnings

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Russell J. Lundholm, ...

Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings

By Neil Bhattacharya, Ervin L. Black, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies