Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lessons Learned: Advantages and Disadvantages of Mixed Methods Research

Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Forthcoming

26 Pages Posted: 2 May 2011 Last revised: 9 May 2011

Mary A. Malina

University of Colorado at Denver - Business School

Hanne Norreklit

Aarhus University - Department of International Business

Frank H. Selto

University of Colorado, Boulder

Date Written: December 13, 2010

Abstract

The purposes of this paper are to (1) discuss the theoretical assumptions, qualities, problems and myopia of the dominating quantitative and qualitative approaches, (2) describe the methodological lessons that we learned while conducting a series of longitudinal studies on the use and usefulness of a specialized balanced scorecard, and (3) encourage researchers to actually use multiple methods and sources of data to address the very many accounting phenomena that we still do not understand well.

Design/methodology/approach - This paper is an opinion piece based on our experience conducting a series of longitudinal mixed method studies.

Findings - We suggest that the divides between quantitative vs. qualitative methods and economic vs. more behavioral theories are not constructive toward understanding accounting phenomena.

Originality/value - We hope this paper provides encouragement to those that may wish to bridge our ideological gaps and comfort to those that are actively trying to do so.

Keywords: Qualitative Research, Quantitative Research, Mixed Method Research, Research Methods

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Malina, Mary A. and Norreklit, Hanne and Selto, Frank H., Lessons Learned: Advantages and Disadvantages of Mixed Methods Research (December 13, 2010). Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1826304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
I Arbnor , B Bjerke
Methodology for creating Business knowledge Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ashley , C W J Granger , R Schmalansee
Advertising and aggregate consumption: An analysis of causality
Econometrica , volume 48 , issue 5 , p. 1149 - 1167 Posted: 1980
Crossref
R D Banker , G Potter , D Srinivasan
An empirical investigation of an incentive plan that includes nonfinancial performance measures
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 92 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B K Behn , Riley , R A
Using nonfinancial information to predict financial performance: The case of the U.S. airline industry
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 56 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Friederike Wall , Stephan Leitner
Agent-Based Computational Economics in Management Accounting Research: Opportunities and Difficulties
Wall, Friederike, and Stephan Leitner. 2020. Agent-based Computational Economics in Management Accounting Research: Opportunities and Difficulties. Journal of Management Accounting Research. doi: 10.2308/jmar-19-073. · 92 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 128
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Angelo Arcuri
Upstream Vertical Integration in the Luxury Leather Goods Industry: Evidence from Italy and France
14 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 6 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 38
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,120
RANK
5,290
2 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Conjectures Regarding Empirical Managerial Accounting Research

By Jerold L. Zimmerman

In Search of Management Accounting Theory

By Teemu Malmi and Markus Granlund

Innovation in Management Accounting: The Needs of World-Class Firms

By Shokrollah Khajavi and Amin Nazemi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies