Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating Derivatives in Nonseparable Models with Limited Dependent Variables

Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1668R

21 Pages Posted: 13 May 2011

Joseph G. Altonji

Yale University - Economic Growth Center; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Hidehiko Ichimura

Graduate School of Economics, University of Tokyo

Taisuke Otsu

Yale University - Cowles Foundation

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2011

Abstract

We present a simple way to estimate the effects of changes in a vector of observable variables X on a limited dependent variable Y when Y is a general nonseparable function of X and unobservables, and X is independent of the unobservables. We treat models in which Y is censored from above, below, or both. The basic idea is to first estimate the derivative of the conditional mean of Y given X at x with respect to x on the uncensored sample without correcting for the effect of x on the censored population. We then correct the derivative for the effects of the selection bias. We discuss nonparametric and semiparametric estimators for the derivative. We also discuss the cases of discrete regressors and of endogenous regressors in both cross section and panel data contexts.

Keywords: Censored regression, Nonseparable models, Endogenous regressors, Tobit, Extreme quantiles

JEL Classification: C1, C14, C23, C24

Suggested Citation:

Altonji, Joseph G. and Ichimura, Hidehiko and Otsu, Taisuke, Estimating Derivatives in Nonseparable Models with Limited Dependent Variables (April 2011). Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1668R, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1830131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1830131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J G Altonji , F Hayashi , L J Kotlikoff
Parental altruism and inter vivos transfers: theory and evidence
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , p. 1121 - 1166 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J G Altonji , R L Matzkin
Panel data estimators for nonseparable models with endogenous regressors Posted: 2001
Crossref
J G Altonji , H Ichimura , T Otsu
Estimating derivatives in nonseparable models with limited dependent variables
Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper #1668 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J G Altonji , R L Matzkin
Cross section and panel data estimators for nonseparable models with endogenous regressors
Econometrica , volume 73 , p. 1053 - 1102 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,797
RANK
310,156
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Identification and Estimation of Triangular Simultaneous Equations Models Without Additivity

By Guido W. Imbens and Whitney K. Newey

Panel Data Estimators for Nonseparable Models with Endogenous Regressors

By Joseph G. Altonji and Rosa L. Matzkin

Nonparametric Censored and Truncated Regression

By Arthur Lewbel and Oliver B. Linton

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies