Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Industry Relatedness and Corporate Coherence

24 Pages Posted: 6 May 2011

Giulio Bottazzi

Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna

Davide Pirino

Department of Economics and Finance, University of Rome "Tor Vergata"

Date Written: November 3, 2010

Abstract

Since the seminal contribution of Teece et al. (1994), the strength, scope and quality of corporate diversification is often detected comparing the observed value of some statistics derived from the diversification patterns of a sample of firms, with its expected value. The latter is obtained under a null hypothesis which assumes some random assignment procedure of sectors to firms. The approaches generally adopted in the literature present two problems. First, being based on the observed value of a statistic, these methods could lead, depending on the nature of the sample, to noisy and non-homogeneous estimates. Second, the benchmark value used to identify the presence and strength of deterministic patterns are obtained under specific and privileged null hypothesis. Both effects could lead to the erroneous classification of spurious random effects as deterministic. This paper shows that the adoption of p-scores as measure of relatedness strongly alleviate the first problem, leading to cleaner and more homogeneous estimates. We design and implement a null hypothesis which rules out random artifacts and effectively identify new features in firm diversification pattern. Using the NBER database on patents, we apply our results to the study of the relationship between the coherence and the scope of corporate patent portfolios.

Keywords: corporate coherence, relatedness, null model analysis, patent data

JEL Classification: C1, D2, L2

Suggested Citation:

Bottazzi, Giulio and Pirino, Davide, Measuring Industry Relatedness and Corporate Coherence (November 3, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1831479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1831479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
C H Berry
Corporate growth and diversification Posted: 1975
Crossref
J Bessen
Matching patent data to compustat firms. Nber working papers Posted: 2009-05
Y Y M Bishop , S E Fienberg , P W Holland
Discrete Multivariate Analysis Posted: 1975
S Breschi , F Lissoni , F Malerba
Knowledge-relatedness in firm technological diversification
Research Policy , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,121
RANK
261,368
14 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies