Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causal Reasoning in Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure

Accounting, Organizations and Society, 2011

54 Pages Posted: 5 May 2011

Lisa Koonce

University of Texas

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

James Smith

University of Lethbridge - Dhillon School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 4, 2011

Abstract

Causal reasoning involves understanding the cause of events that have already happened (i.e., diagnosis) as well as predicting which future events will occur (i.e., prediction). Although this type of reasoning is an important part of financial reporting and voluntary disclosure, very little research has relied on it as a basis for developing and interpreting testable research ideas. The purpose of this paper is twofold: First, we review key theories from psychology that pertain to causal reasoning. Second, we identify how these theories can be successfully used by behavioral researchers interested in financial reporting and voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: causal reasoning, accounting, financial reporting, voluntary disclosure, bias, behavioral, experiment, psychology, diagnosis, prediction

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Koonce, Lisa L. and Seybert, Nicholas and Smith, James, Causal Reasoning in Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure (May 4, 2011). Accounting, Organizations and Society, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1831450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
Crossref
W Ahn , C Kalish , D Medin , &amp; S Gelman
The role of covariation versus mechanism information in causal attribution
Cognition , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 299 - 352 Posted: 1995
Crossref
M Alicke , J Buckingham , E Zell , &amp; T Davis
Culpable control and counterfactual reasoning in the psychology of blame
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 1371 - 1381 Posted: 2008
Crossref
U Anderson , L Koonce
Evaluating the sufficiency of causes in audit analytical Procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,648
RANK
75,958
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies