Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mixed Methods Research in Accounting

Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Vol. 8, pp. 5-21, 2011

Posted: 9 May 2011

Jennifer Grafton

University of Melbourne

Anne M. Lillis

University of Melbourne

Habib Mahama

Qatar University

Date Written: May 5, 2011

Abstract

Purpose: In this paper we set the scene for this special issue by synthesising the vast array of literature on mixed methods research, to examine what constitutes mixed methods research, and the associated strengths and risks attributed to this approach.

Design/Methodology/Approach: This paper takes the form of a literature review. We draw on extensive methods research from a diverse range of social science disciplines to identify and explore key definitions, opportunities and risks in mixed methods studies. We review a number of accounting studies that adopt mixed methods research approaches. This allows us to analyse variance in how mixed methods research is conceptualised across these studies and evaluate the perceived strengths and limitations of specific mixed methods design choices.

Findings: We identify a range of opportunities and challenges in the conduct of mixed methods research and illustrate these by reference to both published studies and the other contributions to this special issue.

Originality/Value: With the exception of Modell (2005, 2009, 2010) there is sparse discussion of the application and potential of mixed methods research in the extant accounting literature.

Keywords: methods research, research methods, methodology

Suggested Citation:

Grafton, Jennifer and Lillis, Anne and Mahama, Habib, Mixed Methods Research in Accounting (May 5, 2011). Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Vol. 8, pp. 5-21, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1832949
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,016
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies