Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Algorithm of Detection of Manipulations with Revenue and Retained Earnings in Financial Statements

15 Pages Posted: 10 May 2011

Igor Pustylnick

Far Eastern Federal University; Conestoga College

Date Written: May 6, 2011

Abstract

This paper presents a statistical analysis confirming the former empirical findings that positive differential between the rates of growth of P-Score and Z-score appears in the data obtained from the financial statements of the companies implicated in major financial fraud occurred in the late 199x-early 200x. The paper is based on the result of regression analysis, using the ratios, which were constructed from the financial statement data used in the calculations of P-Score and Z-Score. The results show that positive values of the difference between the rates of growth of P-Score and Z-Score are statistically correlated with Net Income/Revenue and Retained Earnings/Total Equity ratios. Both ratios represent the areas of the financial statements where the majority of the mentioned fraud occurred. The findings allow concluding that positive differential between the rates of growth can indicate the manipulation with the statements. Review of the standard error of estimate shows that the initial linear regression is very coarse. The final part of the paper proposes the optimization of the linear regression formula and discusses its limitations.

Keywords: Financial Statements, Fraud, Manipulation, Z-Score, P-Score, Revenue, Retained Earnings

Suggested Citation:

Pustylnick, Igor, Algorithm of Detection of Manipulations with Revenue and Retained Earnings in Financial Statements (May 6, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1833804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1833804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Acfe
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2008
Anup Agrawal , Sahiba Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
AFA 2004 San Diego Meetings Pages: 47 Posted: 17 Jan 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance Posted: 1968
Crossref
M Beneish
Earnings Management: A Perspective
Managerial Finance , volume 27 , issue 12 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,314
RANK
195,121
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies