Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ROA-Matched Discretionary Accruals Models vs. the Original Jones Type Models: A Cost and Benefit Analysis

41 Pages Posted: 10 May 2011

Michael S. H. Shih

University of Windsor - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: May 9, 2011

Abstract

Kothari et al. (2005) propose ROA matched models to estimate discretionary accruals for samples skewed toward firms with good or poor performance to reduce the frequency of Type I errors. Many researchers, however, use such models for unskewed samples. In these cases, ROA matched models have no advantage over the original Jones type models in frequency of Type I errors. This study shows, more importantly, ROA-matched Jones type models systematically underestimate discretionary accruals for firms that manage earnings. Thus, researchers using discretionary accruals estimated from such a model as an independent variable in regression analysis may obtain a coefficient estimate with a different sign from the true coefficient. Moreover, the ROA-matched models are likely to have a much higher frequency of Type II errors than the original Jones type models. The results of empirical tests are consistent with this prediction. Depending on the extent of earnings management, the ROA matched models often are less than half as likely to detect earnings management as the original Jones type models for random (unskewed) samples. The results hold for both annual and quarterly data, and regardless of whether accruals are estimated using the balance sheet or income statement approach. Researchers therefore should use the ROA matched models in empirical research with caution, and only for situations where the partitioning variable is highly correlated with performance.

Suggested Citation:

Shih, Michael S. H., ROA-Matched Discretionary Accruals Models vs. the Original Jones Type Models: A Cost and Benefit Analysis (May 9, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1836208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1836208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Ali , T Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Can stock recommendations predict earnings management and analysts' earnings forecast errors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Botsari , G Meeks
Do acquirers manage earnings prior to a share for share bid?
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 35 , p. 633 - 670 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Chen , C Lin , Y Lin
Audit Partner Tenure, Audit Firm Tenure, and Discretionary Accruals: Does Long Auditor Tenure Impair Earnings Quality?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 415 - 445 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
850
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,676
RANK
65,575
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies