Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Threats to Validity and Reliability in Mixed Methods Accounting Research

Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 39-58, 2011

Posted: 17 May 2011

Eeva-Mari Ihantola

Tampere University

Lili-Anne Kihn

University of Tampere, Faculty of Management

Date Written: May 16, 2011

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this study is to shed light on the threats to quality in mixed methods accounting research, wherein quantitative and qualitative approaches are combined in data collection, analysis and interpretation.

Design – Our paper is framed according to the following three perspectives: The authors first synthesize the threats to validity and reliability in quantitative and qualitative parts of mixed methods research using the quality standards of each; they then introduce an integrative framework of mixed methods research quality by Teddlie and Tashakkori (2003, see also and Tashakkori and Teddlie, 2008). Thereafter, they address the specific threats to quality that come to the fore when inferences from the quantitative and qualitative components of the study are combined to form meta-inferences using a legitimation framework by Onwuegbuzie and Johnson (2006).

Findings – The authors’ analysis not only indicates a wide range of threats to the validity and reliability of mixed methods research in a range of categories, but also clarifies how the three perspectives described in this paper are linked and supplement each other.

Research limitations – Methodological research published in English over the last decade is emphasized to create an approach to assess mixed methods accounting research. The frameworks analyzed could still be studied in greater detail. Additional perspectives on the validity and reliability of mixed methods research could also be studied and developed.

Practical implications – This study furthers our understanding of such new developments in methodological research which may be of great importance to those conducting or evaluating empirical research.

Originality/value – Based on a comprehensive synthesis, this paper presents and analyzes theoretical frameworks potentially useful for scholars, students and practitioners. It focuses on both traditional and novel areas of validity and reliability in mixed methods research.

Classification: Conceptual analysis, literature analysis.

Keywords: accounting research, mixed methods, reliability, validity

JEL Classification: B00, B4, B30, B41, C19, C42, C93, M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ihantola, Eeva-Mari and Kihn, Lili-Anne, Threats to Validity and Reliability in Mixed Methods Accounting Research (May 16, 2011). Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 39-58, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1843259
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,810
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies