Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Panels with Predetermined Regressors: Likelihood-Based Estimation and Bayesian Averaging With an Application to Cross-Country Growth

Banco de Espana Working Paper, No. 1109

55 Pages Posted: 26 May 2011

Enrique Moral-Benito

Banco de España; Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: May 17, 2011

Abstract

This paper discusses likelihood-based estimation of linear panel data models with general predetermined variables and individual-specific effects. The resulting (pseudo) maximum likelihood estimator is asymptotically equivalent to standard GMM but tends to have smaller finite-sample biases as illustrated in simulation experiments. Moreover, the availability of such a likelihood function allows applying the Bayesian apparatus to this class of panel data models. Combining the aforementioned estimator with Bayesian model averaging methods we estimate empirical growth models simultaneously considering endogenous regressors and model uncertainty. Empirical results indicate that only the investment ratio seems to robustly cause long-run economic growth. Moreover, the estimated rate of convergence is not significantly different from zero.

Keywords: dynamic panel estimation, maximum likelihood, weak instruments, growth regressions, bayesian model averaging

JEL Classification: C11, C33, O40

Suggested Citation:

Moral-Benito, Enrique, Dynamic Panels with Predetermined Regressors: Likelihood-Based Estimation and Bayesian Averaging With an Application to Cross-Country Growth (May 17, 2011). Banco de Espana Working Paper, No. 1109, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1844186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1844186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
D Acemoglu
Introduction to Modern Economic Growth Posted: 2009
R Agarwala
Price Distortions and Growth in Developing Countries Posted: 1983
P Aghion , P Howitt
A Model of Endogenous Growth through Creative Destruction
Econometrica , volume 60 , p. 323 - 351 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S Ahn , P Schmidt
Efficient Estimation of Models for Dynamic Panel Data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,340
RANK
420,501
53 Citations
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Banco de Espana Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Is Newer Better? Penn World Table Revisions and Their Impact on Growth Estimates

By Simon Johnson, William D. Larson, ...

Is Newer Better? Penn World Table Revisions and Their Impact on Growth Estimates

By Simon Johnson, William D. Larson, ...

Economic Information Versus Quality Variation in Cross-Country Data

By John W. Dawson, Joseph P. Dejuan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies