Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insight – Distributional Hedge Fund Replication Via State Contingent Stochastic Dominance

15 Pages Posted: 31 May 2011 Last revised: 2 Jul 2011

Clemens Glaffig

Panathea Capital Partners

Date Written: April 3, 2011

Abstract

We propose a new hybrid hedge fund replication technique, which combines aspects of portfolio construction from factor based replication with an innovative version of distributional replication. It uses a parameterized replicating strategy for which we match a version of state contingent integral stochastic dominance. The dominance will be over a set of distributions reflecting preferred, state contingent distributional performance characteristics, granting insight into return features to arbitrary fine detail. It emphasizes the replication of desired aspects rather than the replication of the performance path. A further application of this approach is to replicate certain features of a target fund and at the same time dominate on less desired aspect. Before the new approach to replication is presented, a brief recollection of the evolution, the various different approaches and some of the pitfalls of hedge fund replication are highlighted.

Keywords: hedge fund, replication technique, portfolio construction, stochastic dominance

Suggested Citation:

Glaffig, Clemens, Insight – Distributional Hedge Fund Replication Via State Contingent Stochastic Dominance (April 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1845485 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1845485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,032
RANK
627,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies