Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Zero Return a Natural Benchmark for Investors? An Investigation with Individual Trading Records

46 Pages Posted: 25 May 2011 Last revised: 16 Mar 2012

Rahul Chhabra

Indian School of Business

Sankar De

Independent

Naveen R. Gondhi

Indian School of Business

Bhimasankaram Pochiraju

Indian School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 20, 2012

Abstract

Using a unique and large dataset of trading records, we find that individual investors view zero returns as a natural benchmark for their trading performance. They increase both buy and sell trading volume if their past investment outcomes are positive, and decrease them if the outcomes are negative, but appear to care much less for the size of the same outcomes (gains as well as losses). We also find that this trading behavior is non-rational; it results in economically significant declines in profits from current trades even without taking into account transactions costs. While our findings support the age-old knowledge that human thought processes are heavily influenced by the distinction between positive and negative numbers, our research strategy is motivated by recent research in experimental psychology that documents that individual subjects are more sensitive to the presence or absence of a stimulus than to its magnitude. Our findings provide new and empirically testable explanations for a number of extensively documented phenomena in finance and accounting, including excessive trading by overconfident investors.

Keywords: individual investors, institutional investors, trading behavior, overconfidence, rationality

JEL Classification: D19, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chhabra, Rahul and De, Sankar and Gondhi, Naveen R. and Pochiraju, Bhimasankaram, Is Zero Return a Natural Benchmark for Investors? An Investigation with Individual Trading Records (January 20, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1846474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1846474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,348
RANK
136,892
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Depression Babies: Do Macroeconomic Experiences Affect Risk-Taking?

By Ulrike Malmendier and Stefan Nagel

Learning By Trading

By Amit Seru, Tyler Shumway, ...

Inexperienced Investors and Bubbles

By Stefan Nagel and Robin M. Greenwood

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies