Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Competition Over Information and the Pricing of Information Asymmetry

Accounting Review, Vol. 87, No. 1, pp. 35-58, 2012

43 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2011 Last revised: 23 Jan 2012

Brian Akins

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 6, 2011

Abstract

Whether the information environment affects the cost of capital is a fundamental question in accounting and finance research. Relying on theories about competition between informed investors as well as the pricing of information asymmetry, we hypothesize a cross-sectional variation in the pricing of information asymmetry that is conditional on competition. We develop and validate empirical proxies for competition using the number and concentration of institutional investor ownership. Using these proxies, we find a lower pricing of information asymmetry when there is more competition. Overall, our results suggest that competition between informed investors has an important effect on how the information environment affects the cost of capital.

Keywords: Information Risk, Information Quality, Asset Pricing

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Akins, Brian K. and Ng, Jeffrey and Verdi, Rodrigo S., Investor Competition Over Information and the Pricing of Information Asymmetry (June 6, 2011). Accounting Review, Vol. 87, No. 1, pp. 35-58, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1858906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M Brennan , A Subrahmanyam
Market microstructure and asset pricing: On the compensation for illiquidity in stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 441 - 464 Posted: 1996
Crossref
B Bushee
The influence of institutional investors on myopic R&D investment behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1998
S Chakravarty
Stealth-trading: Which traders' trades move stock prices
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 307 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P Christensen , L De La Rosa , G Feltham
Information and the cost of capital: An ex ante perspective
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 817 - 848 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,772
RANK
31,419
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies