Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Strategies and Compensation of a Mean-Variance Optimizing Fund Manager

44 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2011 Last revised: 21 Apr 2012

Jan Palczewski

University of Leeds

Georgios Aivaliotis

University of Leeds - School of Mathematics and Statistics

Date Written: April 20, 2012

Abstract

This paper introduces a general continuous-time mathematical framework for solution of dynamic mean-variance control problems. We obtain theoretical results for two classes of functionals: the first one depends on the whole trajectory of the controlled process and the second one is based on its terminal-time value. These results enable the development of numerical methods for mean-variance problems for a pre-determined risk-aversion coefficient. We apply them to study optimal trading strategies pursued by fund managers in response to various types of compensation schemes. In particular, we examine the effects of continuous monitoring and scheme's symmetry on trading behaviour and fund performance.

Keywords: mean-variance, continuous-time stochastic control, viscosity solutions, investment strategy, managerial compensation

JEL Classification: C61, C63, G11, G23

Suggested Citation:

Palczewski, Jan and Aivaliotis, Georgios, Investment Strategies and Compensation of a Mean-Variance Optimizing Fund Manager (April 20, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1859289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1859289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,785
RANK
228,376
3 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Dynamic Mean-Variance Asset Allocation

By Suleyman Basak and Georgy Chabakauri

Dynamic Mean-Variance Asset Allocation

By Suleyman Basak and Georgy Chabakauri

A Geometric Approach to Multiperiod Mean Variance Optimization of Assets and Liabilities

By Markus Leippold, Paolo Vanini, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies