Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Numerical Formats within Risk Disclosures and the Moderating Effect of Investors’ Disclosure Management Concerns

Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 30-2011

50 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2011

Mark W. Nelson

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Kathy Rupar

Georgia Institute of Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 8, 2011

Abstract

We provide experimental evidence that investors’ risk judgments are affected by the numerical format of sensitivity-analysis disclosures, with investors assessing higher risk in response to dollar-formatted disclosures than percentage-formatted disclosures. We also provide evidence that this effect is moderated by whether format is mandated or at the discretion of management. Specifically, investors respond to management discretion over numerical format by increasing risk assessments in response to percentage formats and decreasing risk assessments in response to dollar formats. In a second study we again support the moderating role of format discretion and provide evidence that the effect of discretion is not due to the extent of investors’ knowledge of alternative formats. Our results provide insight about the effects of current disclosure formats and suggest implications for managers who choose formats, investors who interpret formatted information, and regulators who consider whether to further prescribe the formats that are used in financial disclosures.

Keywords: numerical format effect, sensitivity analysis, risk judgment, earnings management, disclosure management, ratio bias

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, Mark W. and Rupar, Kathy, Numerical Formats within Risk Disclosures and the Moderating Effect of Investors’ Disclosure Management Concerns (June 8, 2011). Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 30-2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1860348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1860348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R M Alexander , A D Blay , K Hurtt
An examination of convergent validity in internet-based accounting research
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 18 , p. 207 - 217 Posted: 2006
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
G L Brase
Which statistical formats facilitate what decisions? The perception and influence of different statistical information formats
Journal of Behavioral Decision Making , volume 15 , p. 381 - 401 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Callahan
Learning and development of probability concepts. Effects of computerassisted instruction and diagnosis. Unpublished doctoral dissertation Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,090
RANK
168,133
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies