Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bid and Ask Prices Tailored to Traders’ Risk-Aversion and Gain-Propension

20 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2011

Marta Cardin

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Dipartimento di Economia

Bennet Eisenberg

Lehigh University - Industrial and Systems Engineering Department

Luisa Tibiletti

University of Turin - Department of Management

Date Written: May 17, 2011

Abstract

Bid and ask prices tailored to the traders’ risk-aversion and gain-propension are defined. Risk and gain premia are given by the Extended Gini indices, where the characteristic parameter captures the traders’ perception of the under-performance and over-performance of the asset. Sufficient and necessary conditions for successful trading are set out. The bid-ask price spread and the so-called probability of trading are used to measure the chances of trading. Numerical tables for these measures are given for the most common distributions and different levels of buyer’s risk-aversion and seller’s gain-propension.

Keywords: Extended Gini Index, bid and ask prices, pessimism and optimism index

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G12, G29

Suggested Citation:

Cardin, Marta and Eisenberg, Bennet and Tibiletti, Luisa, Bid and Ask Prices Tailored to Traders’ Risk-Aversion and Gain-Propension (May 17, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1860343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1860343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
H A David , H N Nagaraja
Order Statistics, Wiles Series in Probability and Statistics Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Denneberg
Premium Calculation Why Standard Deviation Should be Replaced by Absolute Deviation
ASTIN Bulletin , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 190 Posted: 1990
Crossref
J Dow , S R Da Costa Werlang
Uncertainty aversion, risk aversion, and the optimal choice of portfolio
Econometrica , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 197 - 204 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M Eling , S Farinelli , D Rossello , L Tibiletti
Tail Risk in Hedge Funds: Classical Skewness Coefficients vs Azzalini's Skewness Parameter
International Journal of Managerial Finance , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 290 - 304 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,141
RANK
609,870
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Properties of the Extended Gini Measures of Variability and Inequality

By Shlomo Yitzhaki and Edna Schechtman

The Gini Instrumental Variable, or 'the Double IV Estimator'

By Edna Schechtman and Shlomo Yitzhaki

Measuring the Returns to Education Nonparametrically

By Shawn W. Ulrick

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies