Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Long-Horizon Event Study Methodology

38 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2011

James S. Ang

Florida State University; Florida State University - College of Law

Shaojun Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: June 15, 2011

Abstract

We describe the fundamental issues that long-horizon event studies face in choosing the proper research methodology, and summarize findings from existing simulation studies about the performance of commonly used methods. We document in detail how to implement a simulation study and report findings from our own study that focuses on large-size samples. The findings have important implications for future research.

In our simulation study, we examine the performance of more than twenty different testing procedures, which can be broadly classified into two categories: The buy-and-hold benchmark approach and the calendar-time portfolio approach. The first approach uses a benchmark to measure the abnormal buy-and-hold return for every event firm, and tests the null hypothesis that the average abnormal return is zero. We investigate the performance of five ways of choosing the benchmark and four test statistics including the standard t-test, the Johnson’s skewness-adjusted t-test, the bootstrapped Johnson’s skewness-adjusted t-test, and the Fisher’s sign test. The second approach forms a portfolio in each calendar month consisting of firms that have had an event within a certain time period prior to the month, and tests the null hypothesis that the intercept is zero in the regression of monthly calendar-time portfolio returns against the factors in an asset-pricing model. We implement this approach with both the Fama-French three-factor model and the four-factor model with an additional momentum factor, and with both the ordinary least-squares and weighted least-squares estimation methods. We find that the combination of the sign test and the benchmark with a single most correlated firm provides the best overall performance for various sample sizes and long horizons. Furthermore, the Fama-French three-factor model is a better asset pricing model for monthly returns of calendar-time portfolios than the four-factor model, as the latter leads to serious overrejection of the null hypothesis.

Keywords: Bootstrap, Long-horizon event study, Skewness-adjusted t-test, Simulation, Weighted least-squares regression

Suggested Citation:

Ang, James S. and Zhang, Shaojun, Evaluating Long-Horizon Event Study Methodology (June 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1865625 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1865625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J S Ang , S Zhang
An Evaluation of Testing Procedures for Long Horizon Event Studies
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , p. 251 - 274 Posted: 2004
N Jegadeesh , J Karceski
Long-run performance evaluation: Correlation and heteroskedasticity-consistent tests
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 16 , p. 101 - 111 Posted: 2009
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting Long-run Abnormal Stock Returns: The Empirical Power and Specification of Test Statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 372 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Brav , P A Gompers
Myth or Reality? The Long-run Underperformance of Initial Public Offerings: Evidence from Venture and Nonventure Capital-backed Companies
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 1791 - 1821 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,747
RANK
16,793
3 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Market Efficiency, Long-Term Returns, and Behavioral Finance

By Eugene F. Fama

Market Underreaction to Open Market Share Repurchases

By David L. Ikenberry, Josef Lakonishok, ...

Managerial Decisions and Long-Term Stock Price Performance

By Mark L. Mitchell and Erik Stafford

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies