Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparison of Portfolio Optimization Models with Real Features: An Empirical Study Based on Chinese Stock Market

Dynamics of Continuous, Discrete and Impulsive Systems Series B: Applications & Algorithms, Vol. 17, pp. 83-100, 2010

15 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2011

Jianyang Hu

Cambridge University; Harvard University

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: September 1, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, we compare the performance of four single-period portfolio selection models: Mean-Variance model (MV), Mean Absolute Deviation model (MAD), Conditional Value-at-Risk model (CVaR) and Minimax model (MM). Real features such as transaction cost and cardinality constraint are considered. Systematic in-sample and out-of-sample analyses are carried out to evaluate the efficiency of these four models using historical data from periods with different markets trends in Chinese stock market. Our empirical results reveal that portfolio strategies generated by these four models outperform the market portfolio with higher Treynor ratio and positive information ratio in the bull market and less volatile market, while they generally underperform the market portfolio in the bear market. Moreover, we find that the MM model demonstrates an ability of generating superior portfolio in volatile market with high degree of uncertainty.

Keywords: Portfolio selection model, real features, empirical analysis, market trends, Chinese stock market

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Jianyang and Hu, Jianyang and Zhang, Gaoqing, Comparison of Portfolio Optimization Models with Real Features: An Empirical Study Based on Chinese Stock Market (September 1, 2010). Dynamics of Continuous, Discrete and Impulsive Systems Series B: Applications & Algorithms, Vol. 17, pp. 83-100, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1866885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
R Angelelli , R Mansini , M G Speranza
A comparison of MAD and CVaR models with real features
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , p. 1188 - 1197 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P Artzner , F Delbaen , J M Eber , D Health
Coherence measures of risk
Mathematical Finance , volume 9 , p. 203 - 228 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Chang
A modified goal programming approach for the mean absolute deviation portfolio optimization model
Applied Mathematics and Computation , volume 171 , p. 567 - 572 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L Chiodi , R Mansini , M G Speranza
Semi-absolute deviation rule for mutual funds portfolio selection
Annals of Operations Research , volume 124 , p. 245 - 265 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
575
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,238
RANK
108,975
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and Ownership Structure

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased) and William H. Meckling

Risk, the Pricing of Capital Assets, and the Evaluation of Investment Portfolios

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

The Option Pricing Model and the Risk Factor of Stock

By Dan Galai and Ronald W. Masulis

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies