Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Isotone Additive Latent Variable Models

Statistics and Computing, Forthcoming

26 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2011

Sylvain Sardy

École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL)

Maria-Pia Victoria-Feser

University of Geneva - HEC

Date Written: May 27, 2011

Abstract

For manifest variables with additive noise and for a given number of latent variables with an assumed distribution, we propose to nonparametrically estimate the association between latent and manifest variables. Our estimation is a two step procedure: First it employs standard factor analysis to estimate the latent variables as theoretical quantiles of the assumed distribution; second, it employs the additive models’ backfitting procedure to estimate the monotone nonlinear associations between latent and manifest variables. The estimated fit may suggest a different latent distribution or point to nonlinear associations. We show on simulated data how, based on mean squared errors, the nonparametric estimation improves on factor analysis. We then employ the new estimator on real data to illustrate its use for exploratory data analysis.

Keywords: factor analysis, principal component analysis, nonparametric regression, Bartlett’s factor scores, dimension reduction

Suggested Citation:

Sardy, Sylvain and Victoria-Feser, Maria-Pia, Isotone Additive Latent Variable Models (May 27, 2011). Statistics and Computing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1866268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D J Bartholomew
The foundations of factor analysis
Biometrika , volume 71 , p. 221 - 232 Posted: 1984
Crossref
D J Bartholomew
The sensitivity of latent trait analysis to choice of prior distribution
British Journal of Mathematical and Statistical Psychology , volume 41 , p. 101 - 107 Posted: 1988
Crossref
D J Bartholomew , M Knott
Latent Variable Models and Factor Analysis. Kendall's Library of Statistics 7 Posted: 1999
P A Boelen , M A Van Den , J Hout , Van Den , Bout
The factor structure of posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms among bereaved individuals: A confirmatory factor analysis study
Journal of Anxiety Disorders , volume 22 , p. 1377 - 1383 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Goodness-of-Fit for Generalized Linear Latent Variables Models

By David Conne, Elvezio Ronchetti, ...

Generalized Monotone Additive Latent Variable Models

By Sylvain Sardy and Maria-pia Victoria-feser

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies