Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contingent Choice Behavioral Models in the Presence of Information Uncertainty

Journal of Real Estate Portfolio Management, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2010

Posted: 21 Jun 2011

Stephen J. Dempsey

University of Vermont - School of Business Administration

David M. Harrison

UCF; Texas Tech University

Kimberly F. Luchtenberg

American University - Department of Finance and Real Estate

Michael Seiler

College of William & Mary - Finance

Date Written: June 20, 2011

Abstract

Recent literature suggests that enhancing the quantity and/or quality of corporate disclosures may influence the non-diversifiable component of information risk for the firm, and hence, have non-trivial valuation implications. We propose a framework that argues a firm’s disclosure level balances the potential cost of capital benefits from selective revelation and the disutility of distress, which in turn is a function of the potential costs of obfuscation. The REIT industry provides an experimentally appropriate backdrop for our position due to its generally heavy reliance on external financing and thus its heightened market exposure to priced information risk. Using three potential measures of the opacity of a REIT’s annual report: the Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level, the Flesch Reading Ease Score, and the number of words contained in the report, we propose that capital constrained firms, particularly those with growth ambitions, should be uniquely sensitive to the transparency of their corporate disclosures as opacity materially influences the firm’s cost of capital.

Suggested Citation:

Dempsey, Stephen J. and Harrison, David M. and Luchtenberg, Kimberly F. and Seiler, Michael, Contingent Choice Behavioral Models in the Presence of Information Uncertainty (June 20, 2011). Journal of Real Estate Portfolio Management, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1868592
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
928
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies