Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Being Focused: When the Purpose of Inference Matters for Model Selection

RUHR Economic Paper No. 264

24 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2011

Holger Dette

Ruhr University of Bochum - Faculty of Mathematics

Manuel Frondel

RWI Leibniz Institute for Economic Research ; Ruhr University Bochum (RUB)

Peter Behl

Ruhr University of Bochum

Harald Tauchmann

Rhine-Westphalia Institute for Economic Research (RWI-Essen)

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

In contrast to conventional model selection criteria, the Focused Information Criterion (FIC) allows for purpose-specific choice of models. This accommodates the idea that one kind of model might be highly appropriate for inferences on a particular parameter, but not for another. Ever since its development, the FIC has been increasingly applied in the realm of statistics, but this concept appears to be virtually unknown in the economic literature. Using a classical example and data for 35 U.S. industry sectors (1960–2005), this paper provides for an illustration of the FIC and a demonstration of its usefulness in empirical applications.

Keywords: Information Criteria, translog cost function, cross-price elasticities

JEL Classification: C3, D2

Suggested Citation:

Dette, Holger and Frondel, Manuel and Behl, Peter and Tauchmann, Harald, Being Focused: When the Purpose of Inference Matters for Model Selection (2011). RUHR Economic Paper No. 264, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1876347 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1876347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
H Akaike
A new look at the statistical model identification
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 1974
Crossref
B E Apostolakis
Energy-Capital-Substitutability/Complementarity
Energy Economics , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 48 - 58 Posted: 1990
Crossref
P Behl , H Dette , M Frondel , H Tauchmann
Choice is Suffering: A Focused Information Criterion for Model Selection
Discussion Paper Series of SFB , volume 823 , issue 42 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E R Berndt
The Practice of Econometrics -Classic and Contemporary Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,611
RANK
864,457
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Rejecting Capital-Skill Complementarity at All Costs

By Manuel Frondel and Christoph M. Schmidt

On the Restrictiveness of Separability: The Significance of Energy in German Manufacturing

By Manuel Frondel and Christoph M. Schmidt

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies