Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Clustering Financial Time Series by Network Community Analysis

International Journal of Modern Physics C, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 35-50

Posted: 1 Aug 2011

Carlo Piccardi

Polytechnic University of Milan

Lisa Calatroni

Polytechnic University of Milan

Fabio Bertoni

SKEMA Business School - Paris la Défense Campus

Date Written: January 14, 2011

Abstract

In this paper, we describe a method for clustering financial time series which is based on community analysis, a recently developed approach for partitioning the nodes of a network (graph). A network with N nodes is associated to the set of N time series. The weight of the link (i; j), which quantfies the similarity between the two corresponding time series, is defined according to a metric based on symbolic time series analysis, which has recently proved effective in the context of financial time series. Then, searching for network communities allows one to identify groups of nodes (and then time series) with strong similarity. A quantitative assessment of the significance of the obtained partition is also provided. The method is applied to two distinct case-studies concerning the US and Italy Stock Exchange, respectively. In the US case, the stability of the partitions over time is also thoroughly investigated. The results favorably compare with those obtained with the standard tools typically used for clustering financial time series, such as the minimal spanning tree and the hierarchical tree.

Suggested Citation:

Piccardi, Carlo and Calatroni, Lisa and Bertoni, Fabio, Clustering Financial Time Series by Network Community Analysis (January 14, 2011). International Journal of Modern Physics C, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 35-50, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1899492
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies