Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodness-of-Fit Tests with Dependent Observations

Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment, 2011

25 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2011 Last revised: 5 Sep 2011

Rémy Chicheportiche

Ecole Centrale Paris

Jean-Philippe Bouchaud

Capital Fund Management

Date Written: June 15, 2011

Abstract

We revisit the Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Cramér-von Mises goodness-of-fit (GoF) tests and propose a generalization to identically distributed, but dependent uni-variate random variables. We show that the dependence leads to a reduction of the "effective" number of independent observations. The generalized GoF tests are not distribution-free but rather depend on all the lagged bi-variate copulas. These objects, that we call 'self-copulas', encode all the non-linear temporal dependences. We introduce a specific, log-normal model for these self-copulas, for which a number of analytical results are derived. An application to financial time series is provided. As is well known, the dependence is to be long-ranged in this case, a finding that we confirm using self-copulas. As a consequence, the acceptance rates for GoF tests are substantially higher than if the returns were iid random variables.

Keywords: extreme value statistics, stochastic processes, financial time series

JEL Classification: C12, C14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Chicheportiche, Rémy and Bouchaud, Jean-Philippe, Goodness-of-Fit Tests with Dependent Observations (June 15, 2011). Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment, 2011 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1904293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,476
RANK
484,103
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Joint Distribution of Stock Returns is Not Elliptical

By Rémy Chicheportiche and Jean-philippe Bouchaud

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies