Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Test for Long Memory in the Conditional Correlation of Bivariate Returns to Stock and Bond Market Index Futures

22 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2011

Kirt C. Butler

Michigan State University

William Christopher Gerken

University of Kentucky - Finance

Katsushi Okada

Michigan State University

Date Written: August 3, 2011

Abstract

Long memory is found in the conditional volatilities of financial returns measured at daily or higher frequencies, as well as in residual cross-products in bivariate series. We test for long memory in conditional correlations by extending the fractionally integrated GARCH model to include previous conditional correlations and standardized cross-products in a bivariate system. We apply the model to stock-stock and stock-bond futures index returns using Engle’s (2002) two-stage dynamic conditional correlation approach. We find that cross-products are indeed long memory processes, but that this feature arises from long memory in conditional volatilities and not from long memory in conditional correlation.

Keywords: Long memory, FIGARCH, DCC, conditional volatility, conditional correlation

JEL Classification: G15, G11, C15, C34

Suggested Citation:

Butler, Kirt C. and Gerken, William Christopher and Okada, Katsushi, A Test for Long Memory in the Conditional Correlation of Bivariate Returns to Stock and Bond Market Index Futures (August 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1905065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
observed long memory in the cross-products of stock market returns is due to long memory behavior in the volatilities
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev
Heterogeneous information arrivals and return volatility dynamics: uncovering the long-run in high frequency returns
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 975 - 1005 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , H Ebense
The distribution of realized stock return volatility
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 61 , p. 43 - 76 Posted: 2001
Crossref
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , P Labys
The distribution of realized exchange rate volatility
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 96 , p. 42 - 55 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
RANK
508,348
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies