Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Social Structure of Communication in Major Accounting Research Journals

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 29, No. 3, pp. 869-909, Fall 2012

55 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2011 Last revised: 8 Oct 2012

Sarah E. Bonner

University of Southern California

James W. Hesford

University of Lethbridge - Faculty of Management

Wim A. Van der Stede

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

S. Mark Young

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: April 2011

Abstract

We examine the structure of communications in accounting research by analyzing patterns of citations among authors who have published in five major journals between 1984 and 2008. Understanding communication structures is important because they shape academic knowledge creation, which prominent scholars have claimed has become narrowly focused and self-perpetuating in accounting due to a specific type of communication structure - 'tribalism.' We use a mathematical algorithm and other analyses to distinguish among five types of communication structures. We find that the field contains multiple clusters, with some clusters being centered on research topics alone, a finding consistent with a 'normal academic field.' Remaining clusters are more narrowly based – on combinations of topics, methods and theory bases – and all but one of them represent a “small world” structure because they are close together and exhibit frequent communication. Both normal academic fields and small worlds have been shown to contribute positively to innovation in research. The economics-based archival financial accounting cluster exhibits some properties of a tribal structure because, while researchers in other clusters communicate toward this cluster, the cluster sends most of its outbound communication to itself. A contribution of our study is that it shows that tribalism is not as rampant as previously suggested. Also, our findings suggest the field has become less tribal over time. Further, we identify 'hub' researchers who attract communications from multiple clusters and whose articles build on, and cite, work from multiple clusters. These individuals are instrumental in moving fields away from tribalism. Finally, we discuss possible determinants and consequences of the existing communication structure.

Keywords: accounting research communication structure, citation analysis, tribalism, network analysis

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bonner, Sarah E. and Hesford, James W. and Van der Stede, Wim A. and Young, S. Mark, The Social Structure of Communication in Major Accounting Research Journals (April 2011). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 29, No. 3, pp. 869-909, Fall 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1909926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
R Antle
Commentary on intellectual boundaries in accounting research
Accounting Horizons , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 109 Posted: 1989
A L Barabási , H Jeong , Z Néda , E Ravasz , A Schubert , T Vicsek
Evolution of the social network of scientific collaborations
Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications , volume 311 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 590 - 614 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: Another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H R Bernard , P D Killworth , M J Evans , C Mccarty , G A Shelley
Studying social relations cross-culturally
Ethnology , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 155 - 179 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,858
RANK
35,031
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies