Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the sensitivity of CEO compensation to gross versus net accounting performance

55 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2011 Last revised: 4 Nov 2023

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Shane S. Dikolli

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Date Written: October 9, 2023

Abstract

In an empirical estimation of the relation between CEO compensation and accounting-based firm and peer performance, researchers often define the performance variables net of CEO compensation expense. We analytically show that a researcher’s use of CEO compensation both as a regression’s dependent variable and as an expense in defining accounting-based independent variables introduces a covariance that biases the researcher’s estimated regression coefficients on focal-firm and peer performance either upwards or downwards. In a panel estimation of CEO compensation, we document empirical evidence of a downward absolute coefficient bias on net focal-firm performance and net peer performance. This evidence may help explain prior inferences of weak CEO incentives and limited usage of relative performance evaluation (RPE). Our results imply that in CEO compensation regressions, a researcher can remove estimation bias in inferring CEO incentives and RPE usage by using gross rather than net accounting performance variables, i.e., by adding back CEO compensation expense to net accounting measures.

Keywords: Compensation studies, Estimation bias, Managerial incentives, Measurement error, Pay-for-performance sensitivity, Relative performance evaluation

JEL Classification: J33, M40, M41, M46

Suggested Citation:

Black, Dirk E. and Dikolli, Shane and Hofmann, Christian and Pfeiffer, Thomas, Estimating the sensitivity of CEO compensation to gross versus net accounting performance (October 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1910819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1910819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
R Antle , A Smith
An empirical investigation of the relative performance evaluation of corporate executives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
G Baker , B Hall
CEO incentives and firm size
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 767 - 798 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
541
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,875
RANK
117,753
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies