Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimation of Operational Risks Using Non-Parametric Approaches with an Application to US Business Losses

24th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2011 Paper

47 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2011

Param Silvapulle

Monash University - Department of Econometrics & Business Statistics

Ainura Tursunalieva

Monash University; Monash University - Department of Econometrics & Business Statistics

Date Written: August 18, 2011

Abstract

Following the recent global financial crisis, many banks and other businesses in the industrialized countries incurred notably heavy losses. As a consequence, reliable estimation of operational risk (OR) is becoming increasingly important to all internationally active banks and other financial institutions. The OR is the unexpected loss, which is the difference between the 99:9 per cent quantile and the mean of the loss distribution. This paper adapts non-parametric methods based on heavy-tailed distributions and constructs point and 95 per cent confidence interval (CI) estimates for ORs. The main advantage of these nonparametric methods is that there are no assumptions made about the shape of loss distributions and that data determines their shapes, providing robust estimates for ORs. Employing these methods, we construct point as well as interval estimates for ORs for US businesses. The noteworthy observation is that the CIs are asymmetric with huge upper bounds, highlighting the extent of uncertainties associated with the point estimates of ORs. The estimates of expected shortfalls lie within these intervals. The nonparametric methods introduced in this paper will have much wider applications, for example, in estimating another popular measure of risk, credit risk.

Suggested Citation:

Silvapulle, Param and Tursunalieva, Ainura and Tursunalieva, Ainura, Estimation of Operational Risks Using Non-Parametric Approaches with an Application to US Business Losses (August 18, 2011). 24th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2011 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1911752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1911752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
OR -Operational Risk, ES -Expected Shortfall, NA CI -Normal approximation based confidence interval estimate , volume 501
C Acerbi , D Tasche
Expected shortfall: a natural coherent alternative to value at risk Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Beirlant , J L Teugels
Extreme Value Theory, chapter Asymptotic Normality of Hill's estimator Posted: 1987
J Beirlant , Y Goegebeur , J Segers , J Teugels
Statistics of Extremes Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,771
RANK
427,290
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital and Risk: New Evidence on Implications of Large Operational Losses

By Patrick De Fontnouvelle, Virginia De Jesus-rueff, ...

Implications of Alternative Operational Risk Modeling Techniques

By Patrick De Fontnouvelle, Eric S. Rosengren, ...

Implications of Alternative Operational Risk Modeling Techniques

By Patrick De Fontnouvelle, John S. Jordan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies