Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Similarity between Trend Behaviors of Multivariate Time Series

17 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2011

Gabjin Oh

Chosun University

Woo Cheol Jun

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 22, 2011

Abstract

We propose a novel approach for estimating the similarity between the trends of two time series, which has been an important problem in the fields of finance, economics and econophysics. We introduce the exit-time correlation (EC) to measure this similarity based on the exit-time method recently used as inverse statistics in financial time series analysis. We use a phase-noise induced Fourier transform method to illustrate the efficiency of our approach compared with the multiscale cross correlation method. The exit-time correlation serves as the inverse statistics for the multiscale cross correlation in analyzing correlation between multivariate time series. The application of our approach to high-frequency foreign exchange rates reveals that the exit-time correlation is related to time organization structure in interactions with a long-range time scale.

Keywords: multivariate time series, cointegration, exit-time correlation

JEL Classification: C39, G19

Suggested Citation:

Oh, Gabjin and Jun, Woo Cheol, Measuring Similarity between Trend Behaviors of Multivariate Time Series (August 22, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1914174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1914174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
RANK
296,056
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies