Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Further Evidence From Meta-Analysis of Audit Fee Research

International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2011 Last revised: 27 Feb 2013

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: April 18, 2012

Abstract

This paper examines the accumulated weight of evidence in audit fee research. Research on factors related to audit fees has become more widespread in recent years, and there was a considerable upsurge in audit fee papers published subsequent to the data used in a recent meta-analysis. In this paper I use meta-analysis to accumulate statistical results from more recent published studies as well as the earlier studies and revisit the overall conclusions about the issues that are examined in audit fee research. The addition of audit fee studies from the more recent period shows that there is now evidence that audit fees are positively associated with internal control and with corporate governance. Evidence from previous studies regarding the audit fee premiums for Big 4 firms and industry specialist auditors, and about the positive relationship between non-audit services and audit fees is reinforced, although in each case there are issues regarding the underlying research that need to be addressed in future studies. The analysis also shows that longer audit tenure is associated with higher fees. The paper concludes with suggestions for future research.

Keywords: auditing, audit fee research, meta-analysis, audit quality

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David, Further Evidence From Meta-Analysis of Audit Fee Research (April 18, 2012). International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1918501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1918501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees, and abnormal accruals Review of
Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Bandyopadhyay , J L Kao
Competition and Big-Six brand name reputation: Evidence from the Ontario municipal audit market
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 64 Posted: 2001
Crossref
I G Basioudis , J R Francis
Big 4 Audit Fee Premiums for National and OfficeLevel Industry Leadership in the United Kingdom Auditing: A
Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 166 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Borenstein , L V Hedges , J P T Higgins , H R Rothstein
Introduction to MetaAnalysis Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
924
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,142
RANK
58,329
7 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Recommended Papers

Inco Ltd.: Market Value, Fair Value, and Management Discretion*

By Sandy Hilton Hilton and Patricia C. O'brien

Engaging Auditors: Field Investigation of a Courtship

By Krista J. Fiolleau, Kris Hoang, ...

Engaging Auditors: Field Investigation of a Courtship

By Krista J. Fiolleau, Kris Hoang, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies