Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Methodology in Accounting Research: A Critique of Taxonomy

40 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2011 Last revised: 19 Sep 2011

Taiwo Olalere

Date Written: September 2, 2011

Abstract

In this paper, I argue that the current taxonomy of methodology in accounting research is conceptually inadequate. Drawing from the social sciences, of which accounting is a part, I propose a classification scheme to address this problem. The central theme of this framework is that methodology is not just a single decision in the research process but a series of decisions at the level research purpose, strategy, method and paradigm. My contention is that methodology surveys, several of them recently released will be more fruitful if undertaken at each of these methodology decision levels i.e. strategy should be compared with strategy, method with method and paradigm with paradigm. In essence, a classification scheme that compares (say) an archival or survey method with experimental strategy is inconsistent with this framework. The framework will enhance the knowledge of researchers and research students about the scope and structure of empirical research and encourage them to be open minded about the diverse methodologies for conducting and evaluating accounting research as well as their strengths and limitations. Ultimately, the selection of research methodology should be driven primarily by the research question: a theory-testing research requires a theory-testing methodology, a theory-generating research requires and theory-generating methodology.

Keywords: Empirical research, Research design, Research methodology, Research model

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Olalere, Taiwo, Methodology in Accounting Research: A Critique of Taxonomy (September 2, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1921192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1921192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,871
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,276
RANK
20,711
2 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies