Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wavelet Neural Networks: A Practical Guide

45 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2011 Last revised: 4 Oct 2011

Antonis Alexandridis

University of Kent; University of Macedonia - Department of Accounting and Finance

Achilleas Zapranis

University of Macedonia - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 6, 2011

Abstract

Wavelet networks (WNs) are a new class of networks which have been used with great success in a wide range of application. However a general accepted framework for applying WNs is missing from the literature. In this study, we present a complete statistical model identification framework in order to apply WNs in various applications. The following subjects were thorough examined: the structure of a WN, methods to train a WN, initialization algorithms, variable significance and variable selection algorithms, a model selection method and finally methods to construct confidence and prediction intervals. Our proposed framework was tested in two simulated cases and in one real dataset consisting of daily temperatures in Berlin. Our results have shown that the proposed algorithms produce stable and robust results indicating that our proposed framework can be applied in various applications.

Keywords: Wavelet networks, model identification, variable selection, model selection, confidence intervals, prediction intervals

JEL Classification: C45, C80

Suggested Citation:

Alexandridis, Antonis and Zapranis, Achilleas, Wavelet Neural Networks: A Practical Guide (September 6, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1923020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1923020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A D Aczel
Complete business statistics Posted: 1993
D Allingham , M West , A I Mees
Wavelet Reconstruction of Nonlinear Dynamics
International Journal of Bifurcation and Chaos , volume 8 , issue 11 , p. 2191 - 2201 Posted: 1998
Crossref
U Anders , O Korn
Model selection in neural networks
Neural Networks , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 309 - 323 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Z Bashir , M E El-Hawary
Short Term Load Forecasting by Using Wavelet Neural Networks
Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
558
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,646
RANK
113,283
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies