Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Investor Attention Influence Stock Market Activity? The Case of Spin-Off Deals

18 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2011

Alessandro Carretta

University of Rome Tor Vergata - Faculty of Economics

Vincenzo Farina

University of Rome Tor Vergata

Elvira Anna Graziano

Link Campus University

Marco Reale

University of Canterbury

Date Written: June 30, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates empirically the nature of the interactions between mass media, investor attention and the stock market using data from a sample of 16 spin-off deals traded on NYSE and published between 2004 and 2010 in 'Wall Street Journal', the US’s second-largest newspaper by circulation.

The results show that: the impact of media sentiment on the stock market reactions is enhanced/moderated by the level of attention of investors; individual investors’ attention is grabbed by stocks experiencing high trading volumes on the previous day; high attention could result in downward pressure on stock market returns.

Keywords: media sentiment, investor attention, internet search, spin-off

JEL Classification: G10, G34

Suggested Citation:

Carretta, Alessandro and Farina, Vincenzo and Graziano, Elvira Anna and Reale, Marco, Does Investor Attention Influence Stock Market Activity? The Case of Spin-Off Deals (June 30, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1930861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1930861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
H Akaike
A new look at statistical model identification
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control AC , volume 19 , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 1973
Crossref
T W Anderson
The Statistical Analysis of Time Series Posted: 1971
Crossref
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is all that talk just noise? The information content of internet stock message boards
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1259 - 1293 Posted: 2004
Crossref
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,870
RANK
210,151
3 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies