Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using VIX Data to Enhance Technical Trading Signals

6 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2011

James Kozyra

Lakehead University

Camillo Lento

Lakehead University

Date Written: September 18, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to provide new insights into the relationship between technical analysis and implied market volatility (VIX) by calculating technical trading rules with the VIX price data, as opposed to the stock prices. Three trending trading rule signals are calculated on the prices of three major U.S. indices and the VIX prices. The results reveal that the trading signals calculated with the VIX level provides large, statistically significant profits that are in excess of the profits from the traditional computation. Sub-period analysis reveals that technical trading rules were most (least) profitable during the period with the highest (lowest) volatility levels.

Keywords: Technical analysis, volatility, VIX

JEL Classification: C4, C22, G14, G19

Suggested Citation:

Kozyra, James and Lento, Camillo, Using VIX Data to Enhance Technical Trading Signals (September 18, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1930018 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1930018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
R Gen Cay
Linear, non-linear and essential fo reign exch ange rate prediction with simple technical trading rules
Journal of International Economics , volume 47 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 1999
P Giot
On the Relationship between Implied Volatility Indices and Sto ck Index Returns Posted: 2006
C Lento
Combined Signal Approach: Further Eviden ce from the Asian-Pacific E quity Markets
Applied Economics Letters , volume 16 , p. 749 - 753 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R M Levich , L R Thomas
The Significan ce of Technical Trading Rule Profits in the Foreign Exch ange Market: A Bootstrap Approach
Journal of International Finance and Money , volume 12 , p. 451 - 474 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,726
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,621
RANK
23,408
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies