Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Unobserved Heterogeneity in the Relationship between Subjective Well-Being and Satisfaction in Various Domains of Life Using the REBUS-PLS Path Modelling Approach: A Case Study

Social Indicators Research, 110 (1), pp. 281-304

31 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2011 Last revised: 28 Dec 2013

Luca Zanin

Prometeia

Date Written: December 10, 2013

Abstract

We propose a model to estimate the direct and indirect effects of the relationship between subjective well-being and satisfaction in various domains of life using a partial least squares path modelling approach in a structural equation model framework. A drawback of these models is that they assume homogeneous behaviour over the observed set of units. To address this issue, Trinchera (Ph.D. thesis, University of Naples, 2007) and Esposito Vinzi et al. (Appl Stoch Models Bus Ind 28:439-458, 2008) proposed an algorithm, called the response-based unit segmentation in partial least squares (REBUS-PLS) path modelling, to detect sources of heterogeneity in both measurement and structural models. The REBUS-PLS allows researchers to identify classes of units with similar behaviours (with respect to the postulated model) and to estimate one model for each identified class (so-called ‘local models’). Applying the REBUS-PLS algorithm to our case study, we detected three main classes of units with similar behaviours and estimated three local models. We found, for example, that in the estimated model for the entire sample, the relationship between satisfaction with family and social life and subjective well-being is statistically significant. However, this result was not confirmed in all of the estimated local models.

Keywords: PLS path modelling, REBUS-PLS, Satisfaction in various domains of life, Subjective well-being, Unobserved heterogeneity

JEL Classification: C20, C30, C80, D01

Suggested Citation:

Zanin, Luca, Detecting Unobserved Heterogeneity in the Relationship between Subjective Well-Being and Satisfaction in Various Domains of Life Using the REBUS-PLS Path Modelling Approach: A Case Study (December 10, 2013). Social Indicators Research, 110 (1), pp. 281-304, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1931250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Ahs , R Westerling
Self-rated health in relation to employment status during periods of high and of low level of unemployment
European Journal of Public Health , volume 16 , p. 295 - 5305 Posted: 2006
S Appleton , L Song
Life satisfaction in urban China: components and determinants
World Development , volume 36 , p. 2325 - 2340 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L Becchetti , L Corrado , F Rossetti
The heterogeneous effects of income changes on happiness
Social Indicators Research Posted: 2010
Crossref
L Bellani , C Ambrosio
Deprivation, social exclusion and subjective well-being
Social Indicators Research Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,003
RANK
864,457
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies