Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Inefficiency and Implied Cost of Capital Models

79 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2011 Last revised: 12 Jul 2019

Tjomme O. Rusticus

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 11, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, I examine the impact of market inefficiency on the properties of implied cost of capital (ICC) estimates. I show that market inefficiency will bias the relation between the ICC estimate and future returns upwards. Utilizing recently developed ICC estimates formed using regression based earnings forecasts, I show that a substantial portion of the returns to an ICC trading strategy stem from mispricing rather than expected returns. The biases induced by mispricing are most severe for firms with significant limits to arbitrage and less severe for firms that are larger, more liquid, and have lower transaction costs, and for ICC estimates based on adjusted analyst forecasts. In addition, I find that controlling for earnings and discount rate news is not an effective control for mispricing, but that controlling for earnings announcement returns is at least partially effective.

Keywords: implied cost of capital, market inefficiency, measurement error, earnings forecasts, regression biases

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Rusticus, Tjomme O., Market Inefficiency and Implied Cost of Capital Models (July 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1933713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1933713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
B K Akins , J Ng , R S Verdi
Investor competition over information and the pricing of information asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Ali , L S Hwang , M A Trombley
Residual-income-based valuation predicts future stock returns: Evidence on mispricing versus risk explanations
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 377 - 396 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J E Core , D J Taylor , R E Verrecchia
When does information asymmetry affect the cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
567
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,889
RANK
110,945
5 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies