Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Bubbles, Common Knowledge and Alternative Accounting Regimes: An Experimental Analysis of Artificial Spot Security Markets. Accounting for or from the Market?

The Japanese Accounting Review, Vol. 3 (2013), p. 21-59

39 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2011 Last revised: 15 Feb 2014

Larry Bensimhon

Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers (CNAM)

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Date Written: March 14, 2013

Abstract

We experimentally explore how common knowledge provided by accounting systems affects investors’ decision and shapes the formation of security prices over time. We design alternative accounting structures and run experiments in artificial security markets framed by these structures. In sessions where investors receive exogenous accounting information about ultimate earnings, prices converge to the fundamental levels derived from those earnings through backward induction. Accounting plays a role for the market. In sessions where investors receive endogenous accounting information about earnings that are linked to the ongoing clearing price of the security, market price levels and paths become indeterminate and lose earnings anchor; investors tend to form their expectations of future prices by forward, not backward, induction. Accounting plays its role from the market, and loses its relevance in financial decision-making. These laboratory results suggest that accounting information and its overarching structure are important to prevent market exuberance, excess volatility and the formation of financial bubbles. They further have relevant effects on market allocative efficiency, and revenue and wealth distribution among investors.

Keywords: share price bubbles, market exuberance, excess volatility, short-term investors, backward induction, forward induction, experimental financial markets, fair value, mark-to-market, accounting regime

JEL Classification: G12, C9, D4, M41, M48, G1

Suggested Citation:

Bensimhon, Larry and Biondi, Yuri, Financial Bubbles, Common Knowledge and Alternative Accounting Regimes: An Experimental Analysis of Artificial Spot Security Markets. Accounting for or from the Market? (March 14, 2013). The Japanese Accounting Review, Vol. 3 (2013), p. 21-59, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1934227 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1934227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D Abreu , M K Brunnermeier
Bubbles and crashes
Econometrica , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R N Anthony
Rethinking the rules of financial accounting. Examining the rules for proper reporting Posted: 2004
C Azariadis
Self-fulfilling prophecies
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 380 - 396 Posted: 1981
Crossref
S B Ball , C A Holt
Speculation and bubbles in an asset market
Journal of Economic Bensimhon and Biondi: Financial Bubbles, Common Knowledge and Alternative Accounting Regimes: An Experimental Analysis of Artificial Spot Security Markets Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,212
RANK
287,617
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Share Price Formation, Market Exuberance and Accounting Design

By Yuri Biondi and Pierpaolo Giannoccolo

What Does Financial Market Do? The Formation of Share Market Prices Under Heterogeneous Beliefs and Common Knowledge

By Yuri Biondi, Serge Galam, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies