Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shadow Probability Theory for Asset Pricing under Ambiguity

58 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2011 Last revised: 5 Oct 2011

Yud Izhakian

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance; Baruch College, City University of New York

Date Written: October 3, 2011

Abstract

Assuming that probabilities (capacities) of events are random, this paper introduces a novel model of decision making under ambiguity, called Shadow probability theory, a generalization of the Choquet expected utility. In this model, probabilities of observable events in a subordinated outcome-space are dominated by second-order unobservable events in a directing probability space. The level of ambiguity, and the decision maker’s attitude toward it, are measured with respect to the directing space. Risk and risk attitude, on the other hand, apply to the subordinated space, as in classical expected utility theory. The desired distinction between preferences and beliefs and between risk and ambiguity is then obtained. A measure of ambiguity is naturally carried over on these settings. The present paper proves that in most cases ambiguity cannot be diversified. Counterintuitively, adding an ambiguous lottery to a portfolio of lotteries usually increases its ambiguity. This result, which implies that full diversification is not always optimal, challenges the common notion in the financial literature that investors should hold a fully diversified portfolio. Using this model of choice, the current paper generalizes the classical asset pricing theory by incorporating ambiguous probabilities. It proposes a well defined ambiguity premium that can be measured empirically.

Keywords: Ambiguity, Ambiguity Measure, Ambiguity Aversion, Uncertainty, Knightian Uncertainty, Prospect Theory

JEL Classification: C44, C65, D81, D83, G11, G12

Suggested Citation:

Izhakian, Yud, Shadow Probability Theory for Asset Pricing under Ambiguity (October 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1937645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1937645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
M Abdellaoui , A Attema , H Bleichrodt
Intertemporal tradeoffs for gains and losses: An experimental measurement of discounted utility
Economic Journal , volume 120 , issue 545 , p. 845 - 866 Posted: 2010-06
Crossref
A B Abel
An exploration of the effects of pessimism and doubt on asset returns
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , volume 26 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1075 - 1092 Posted: 2002-07
E W Anderson , E Ghysels , J L Juergens
The impact of risk and uncertainty on expected returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 263 Posted: 2009-11
Crossref
E W Anderson , L P Hansen , T J Sargent
Robustness, detection and the price of risk Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,099
RANK
141,557
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Smooth Model of Decision Making Under Ambiguity

By Peter Klibanoff, Massimo Marinacci, ...

Model Misspecification and Under-Diversification

By Tan Wang and Raman Uppal

Model Misspecification and Under-Diversification

By Tan Wang and Raman Uppal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies