Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
One Size Fits All? Costs and Benefits of Uniform Accounting Standards

47 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2011

Korok Ray

Texas A&M University

Date Written: September 11, 2011

Abstract

I build a model of neoclassical production to examine the capital market and welfare effects of a uniform accounting standard (like IFRS). Firms vary in their cost of compliance to the standard, and investors vary in their cost of learning diverse standards for capital allocation. A uniform accounting standard increases the quantity of capital in the economy and lowers the cost of capital. However, uniform standards force diverse firms onto the same standard, which reduces welfare. A regulator selects the optimal number and type of standard to balance these competing effects. Uniform accounting standards are better than diverse accounting standards when firm productivity and variation between investors is large, but worse when the cost of investment and variation between firms is large. I draw implications for IFRS/GAAP convergence, and the incentives versus standards debate.

Keywords: International accounting, GAAP, IFRS, FASB, IASB

Suggested Citation:

Ray, Korok, One Size Fits All? Costs and Benefits of Uniform Accounting Standards (September 11, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1940696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1940696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
890
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,754
RANK
61,482
15 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies