Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Risk-Premium Forecasts Implied by Parametric Versus Nonparametric Conditional Mean Estimators

Journal of Econometrics, Vol. 52, pp. 225-244, 1992

20 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2011

Thomas H. McCurdy

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Thanasis Stengos

University of Guelph - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 7, 2011

Abstract

This paper computes parametric estimates of a time-varying risk premium model and compares the one-step-ahead forecasts implied by that model with those given by a nonparametric kernel estimator of the conditional mean function. The conditioning information used for the nonparametric analysis is that implied by the theoretical model of time-varying risk. Thus, the kernel estimator is used, in conjunction with a nonparametric diagnostic test for in-sample residual nonlinear structure, to assess the adequacy of the parametric model in capturing any structure in the excess returns.

Our results support the parametric specification of an asset pricing model in which the conditional beta is the ratio of the relevant components of the conditional covariance matrix of returns modelled as a bivariate generalized ARCH process. Although the predictable component of the conditional moments is relatively small, the parametric estimator of the risk premia has somewhat more out-of-sample forecasting ability than does the kernel estimator. Hence, the superior in-sample performance of the latter may be attributed to overfitting.

Keywords: bivariate generalized ARCH, out-of-sample versus in-sample forecasting, equity premiium forecasts, conditional asset pricing model

Suggested Citation:

McCurdy, Thomas H. and Stengos, Thanasis, A Comparison of Risk-Premium Forecasts Implied by Parametric Versus Nonparametric Conditional Mean Estimators (October 7, 2011). Journal of Econometrics, Vol. 52, pp. 225-244, 1992, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1940472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,168
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Modeling and Forecasting Realized Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

Modeling and Forecasting Realized Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

The Distribution of Realized Exchange Rate Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies