Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Nature of Alpha

22 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2011

Arthur M. Berd

General Quantitative, LLC; The Journal of Investment Strategies

Date Written: February 1, 2011

Abstract

We suggest an empirical model of investment strategy returns which elucidates the importance of non-Gaussian features, such as time-varying volatility, asymmetry and fat tails, in explaining the level of expected returns. Estimating the model on the (former) Lehman Brothers Hedge Fund Index data, we demonstrate that the volatility compensation is a significant component of the expected returns for most strategy styles, suggesting that many of these strategies should be thought of as being 'short vol'. We present some fundamental and technical reasons why this should indeed be the case, and suggest explanation for exception cases exhibiting 'long vol' characteristics. We conclude by drawing some lessons for hedge fund portfolio construction.

Keywords: hedge funds, performance attribution, expected returns, alpha, volatility, asymmetry, fat tails

JEL Classification: C22, C53, G11, G23

Suggested Citation:

Berd, Arthur M., The Nature of Alpha (February 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947264 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1947264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A M Berd , A Tetyevsky
Wag the Dog: the Impact of Volatility on Credit Strategies Posted: 2002-11
A M Berd , R F Engle , A Voronov
The Underlying Dynamics of Credit Correlations
Journal of Credit Risk , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 62 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A M Berd
Investing through Volatility Cycles", QA Capital, presentation Posted: 2007-10
A M Berd
Empirical Models of Investment Strategy Returns: Asymmetry, Fat Tails and the Nature of Alpha Posted: 2008-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,121
RANK
200,848
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Resource Based Strategy & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies