Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A q-Weibull Autoregressive Conditional Duration Model with an Application to NYSE and HSE Data

41 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2011

Tommi A. Vuorenmaa

Rayleigh Research

Date Written: August 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper generalizes the ACD models of Engle and Russell (1998) using the so-called q-Weibull distribution as the conditional distribution. The new specification allows the hazard function to be non-monotonic. We document that the q-Weibull distribution recently suggested in physics as a generalization of the Weibull distribution is closely related to the much older Burr Type XII distribution in statistics. The nested, more heavy-tailed, q-exponential distribution is also being introduced. Data from the New York and the Helsinki Stock Exchange with different market microstructures and data types show that the q-Weibull specification outperforms the standard specifications used in econometrics and performs as well as the Burr specification of Grammig and Maurer (2000). The more parsimonious q-exponential specification typically provides a reasonable fit, improving the fit over the most commonly applied Weibull specification. We also find that the price threshold used affects the shape of the hazard function and thus the relative success of the models and must be taken into account when modeling price durations.

Keywords: ACD model, hazard function, q-Weibull distribution, transactions data

JEL Classification: C16, C22, C41

Suggested Citation:

Vuorenmaa, Tommi A., A q-Weibull Autoregressive Conditional Duration Model with an Application to NYSE and HSE Data (August 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1952550 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1952550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Yacine Aït-Sahalia
Testing Continuous-Time Models of the Spot Interest Rate
Review of Financial Studies , volume 9 , p. 385 - 426 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Luc Bauwens , Fausto Galli , Pierre Giot
The Moments of Log-Acd Models
CORE Discussion Paper Pages: 26 Posted: 25 Feb 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Luc Bauwens , David Veredas
The Stochastic Conditional Duration Model: A Latent Factor Model for the Analysis of Financial Durations Posted: 1999
Crossref
Luc Bauwens , Pierre Giot
The Logarithmic ACD Model: An Application to the Bid-Ask Quote Process of Three NYSE Stocks
Économie et de Statistique , volume 60 , p. 117 - 149 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,036
RANK
327,219
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Econometrics of Ultra-High Frequency Data

By Robert F. Engle

Econometrics

By Luc Bauwens and J. V. K. Rombouts

Time-Varying Arrival Rates of Informed and Uninformed Trades

By David Easley, Liuren Wu, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies