Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time Consistent vs. Time Inconsistent Dynamic Asset Allocation: Some Utility Cost Calculations for Mean Variance Preferences

108 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2011

Abraham Lioui

EDHEC Business School

Date Written: November 2, 2011

Abstract

We solve for the time consistent dynamic asset allocation of an investor with a mean variance objective function in a multiple assets affine setting. We use as a benchmark the pre-commitment strategy widely used in the literature and assess the potential welfare gains from pre-commitment by comparing the time consistent strategy to the pre-commitment, time inconsistent, strategy. The gains from pre-commitment are simply considerable since, in some cases, at the 5 years horizon the yearly certainty equivalent of the pre-commitment strategy is 48% compared with 9% for the time consistent strategy. However, these welfare gains result from huge and unrealistic positions in the risky assets; in some cases, the pre-commitment strategy is more than 60 times the time consistent strategy. We thus looked for alternative time inconsistent strategies that improve relative to the time consistent strategy while still involving reasonable risky asset positions. To identify these strategies, we explore an original aspect of the time consistent mean variance strategy: the presence of intertemporal hedging in such a strategy reflects welfare degradation. Therefore, a natural candidate is the time consistent strategy without the intertemporal hedging component. The second component of the time consistent strategy is the traditional myopic component discounted. We show that this component could be seen as a standard myopic strategy which is marked to market and the discount factor acts as a tailing factor. This marked to market myopic (MMM) strategy is shown to yield reasonable risky assets positions and substantial welfare gains at long horizons relative to the time consistent strategy. We also show that it dominates the standard myopic strategy as well as the equally weighted strategy.

Keywords: mean-variance preferences, dynamic asset allocation, intertemporal hedging, predictability, value and growth investment

JEL Classification: G11, D81, C61

Suggested Citation:

Lioui, Abraham, Time Consistent vs. Time Inconsistent Dynamic Asset Allocation: Some Utility Cost Calculations for Mean Variance Preferences (November 2, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1953178 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1953178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Y Amihud , C Hurvich
Predictive Regressions: A Reduced-Bias Estimation Method
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 813 - 841 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Andreoni , C Sprenger
Risk Preferences are Not Time Preferences Posted: 2010
A Ang , J Chen
CAPM over the long run
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 14 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ang , G Bekaert
Stock return predictability: Is it there?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 651 - 707 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,786
RANK
324,308
2 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investing for the Long Run When Returns are Predictable

By Nicholas Barberis

Consumption and Portfolio Decisions When Expected Returns are Time Varying

By John Y. Campbell and Luis M. Viceira

On the Predictability of Stock Returns: An Asset-Allocation Perspective

By Shmuel Kandel (deceased) and Robert F. Stambaugh

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies