Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Half a Defence of Positive Accounting Research

51 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2011

Paul V. Dunmore

Massey University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 1, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the positive (scientific) approach to accounting research, defined here as any research intended to understand objective causes of human behaviour in accounting settings. It presents a set of ontological and epistemological assumptions which are minimally required for scientific research to be a feasible intellectual project, and argues that while these assumptions may eventually turn out to be wrong they are neither illogical nor absurd. As far as is known at present, positive research in accounting is a defensible activity.

But if the activity is defensible, it is also hard to do well. The best current understanding of how to make progress is due to Popper, and his logic can be applied to both quantitative and qualitative research. Recent papers in auditing (which are typical of good work of their kind) illustrate how far practice falls short of Popper's prescription. Qualitative researchers commonly use theories not as hypotheses which need to be tested and improved, but purely as a lens through which observational findings may be viewed. Quantitative researchers rely on the logic of hypothesis-testing, which is itself less rigorous than Popper's prescription, and combine it with other features that make detection of incorrect hypotheses less likely. Neither qualitative nor quantitative research methods warrant much confidence in accepted findings, and mistaken ideas are not being corrected as rapidly as possible. The success of positive accounting research is argued to be an artefact of setting the bar too low.

Kuhn's description of "normal" science appears to fit positive accounting research better than it fits traditional sciences. This suggests that the apparent functional deficiencies are in fact essential features of the social system of positive accounting research. The prospects are briefly discussed for a Kuhnian crisis and revolution, which might liberate positive accounting to achieve its potential. Suggestions are offered for practical acts of resistance to the existing system which might assist such a change.

Keywords: Positive accounting, methodology, Popper, audit fees, accounting research, normal science

JEL Classification: B41, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Dunmore, Paul, Half a Defence of Positive Accounting Research (October 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1955419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1955419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees, and abnormal accruals
Review of Quantitative Finance & Accounting , volume 27 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Ashton , P Dunmore , M Tippett
Double entry bookkeeping and the distributional properties of a firm's financial ratios
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 31 , p. 583 - 606 Posted: 2004
Crossref
B Bederson
Report to Council on e-print archive workshop Posted: 1994-10-14
M Bekoff , J Pierce
Wild Justice: The moral lives of animals Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,342
RANK
214,562
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies