Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
WK1 Model: Prediction Intervals for Your Forecasts

10 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2011 Last revised: 16 Jun 2014

Martin van Wunnik

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 6, 2011

Abstract

This paper sets forth a synergy of existing statistical theories to obtain a clear-cut model for calculating forecasts with prediction intervals, named the “WK1 model.”

Many predictive models calculate a linear or non-linear trend from the historical data and generate a single, discrete forecast value, being a single dot on this defined trend line (i.e. point forecast).

Our “WK1 model” increases the power of such a single discrete point forecast by adding its probable accuracy with top and bottom limits. The decision-maker obtains thus different ranges of values, each within several pre-defined prediction intervals to assess for that specific outcome probability.

The first step is obviously to establish the degree of the predicting power between the two variables that will be used, based on the historical data and their statistical fundamentals (covariance and correlation).

Once the predicting power of one variable for another one is proven, the second step of the “WK1 model” will calculate the trend line in the usual way. Finally, the results of the first two steps are combined with the calculation of the different prediction intervals (e.g. 60% probability, 75%, 90%, 95%, 99%, 99.5%) to provide the decision-maker a forecast supplemented with its prediction intervals (outcome probability), instead of a single point forecast. These ranges are based on the trend line value, but supplemented with calculated probability margins above and below. By doing so, the “WK1 model” thus includes accuracy and reliability to the point values from the trend line.

Keywords: predictive analytics, prediction intervals, correlation, covariance, trends, future values, estimates, WK1 model, Martin van Wunnik, Consolite, ARSIMA, ARSIMA Projects

JEL Classification: C53, C13, C49, D89, G10

Suggested Citation:

van Wunnik, Martin, WK1 Model: Prediction Intervals for Your Forecasts (November 6, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1955450 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1955450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Van Wunnik , Martin , Peter Lakay , Nicolas Meerschaert
Voorspelling van de verkoop van BMWmotorfietsen, met behulp van LOTUS 123
Ass. A. Thys) Posted: 1991-03-01
Chris Chatfield
Calculating Interval Forecasts
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 135 Posted: 1993-04
Crossref
Jiahui Luan , Tang , Jian , Chen Lu
Prediction Interval on Spacecraft Telemetry Data Based on Modified Block Bootstrap Method
International Conference, AICI 2010 Posted: 2010-10
Crossref
Gillian M Mimmack , Gary J Manas , Denny H Meyer
Introductory statistics for business: the analysis of business data Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,183
RANK
411,549
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies