Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Use of Grounded Theory as a Basis for Research on Strategic and Emerging Technologies in Accounting

Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Nov 2011

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Vicky Arnold

NHH Norwegian School of Economics; University of Central Florida

Jeff Reinking

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Date Written: October 21, 2011

Abstract

Research on emerging technologies in accounting has often proven difficult to conduct while maintaining the meaningfulness of a new technology-driven phenomena and the rigor expected for accounting research. Grounded theory is proposed in this paper as a method that has not been oft used in the discipline, but may be highly applicable in such an emergent domain. Grounded theory was first put forth by Glaser and Strauss (1967); but, in the subsequent years, each of the authors has diverged from the other in their perspectives on how ‘good’ grounded research should be conducted. We explore and compare the two approaches to grounded theory as an introduction for researchers who may find the research method desirable in their research. We also overview a program of research in the area of B2B e-commerce risk and assurance that applies grounded theory in an emerging technology area of accounting, providing both an overview and critique of its implementation. We conclude with some perspectives on the use of grounded theory for emerging technologies research in accounting. An objective of the paper is to help researchers know when to pursue a grounded theory approach and to provide the foundations for undertaking such an endeavor.

Keywords: grounded theory, theory building, theory development, emerging technologies in accounting, strategic technologies in accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G. and Arnold, Vicky and Reinking, Jeff, On the Use of Grounded Theory as a Basis for Research on Strategic and Emerging Technologies in Accounting (October 21, 2011). Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1957360
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,838
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies