Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Focus Group Methods: Using Interactive and Nominal Groups to Explore Emerging Technology-Driven Phenomena in Accounting

International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Nov 2011

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Vicky Arnold

NHH Norwegian School of Economics; University of Central Florida

Date Written: October 16, 2011

Abstract

Arguments are provided for why focus group methods should be used more frequently in accounting and information technology research as we broaden our views on accounting research. Focus group methods are particularly applicable in pursuing the study of emerging technology-driven phenomena in accounting. In this overview of group research methods and their application to studying accounting and information technology phenomena, we focus on the alternative types of focus group methods that may be applied, the applicability of the methods under certain conditions, and the challenges the researcher will face in conducting such research. In examining the methodological challenges facing researchers when using group methods, we demonstrate how these challenges have been addressed in our own research as a way of exemplifying the challenges researchers may face and what compensating strategies researchers might use. Our objective is to highlight when focus groups may be the best method for accounting and information systems researchers and demonstrate how they can be used when they are applicable.

Keywords: focus groups, nominal groups, interactive groups, emerging technologies

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G. and Arnold, Vicky, Focus Group Methods: Using Interactive and Nominal Groups to Explore Emerging Technology-Driven Phenomena in Accounting (October 16, 2011). International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1957354
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies