Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Correlations Constant? Empirical and Theoretical Results on Popular Correlation Models in Finance

53 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2011 Last revised: 29 Jun 2016

Zeno Adams

University of St. Gallen - School of Finance

Roland Füss

Swiss Finance Institute; University of St. Gallen - School of Finance

Thorsten Glück

Wiesbaden Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 26, 2016

Abstract

Multivariate GARCH models have been designed as an extension of their univariate counterparts. Such a view is appealing from a modeling perspective but imposes correlation dynamics that are similar to time-varying volatility. In this paper, we argue that correlations are quite different in nature. We demonstrate that the highly unstable and erratic behavior that is typically observed for the correlation among financial assets is to a large extent a statistical artefact. We provide evidence that spurious correlation dynamics occur in response to financial events that are sufficiently large to cause a structural break in the time-series of correlations. A measure for the autocovariance structure of conditional correlations allows us to formally demonstrate that the volatility and the persistence of daily correlations are not primarily driven by financial news but by the level of the underlying true correlation. Our results indicate that a rolling-window sample correlation is often a better choice for empirical applications in finance.

Keywords: Change-point tests; correlation breaks; dynamic conditional correlation (DCC); multivariate GARCH models; spurious conditional correlation

JEL Classification: C12, C52, G01, G11

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Zeno and Füss, Roland and Glück, Thorsten, Are Correlations Constant? Empirical and Theoretical Results on Popular Correlation Models in Finance (June 26, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1963728 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1963728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
T Adrian , M Brunnermeier
CoVaR. American Economic Review Posted: 2016
Crossref
G Aielli
Dynamic conditional correlation: On properties and estimation
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 282 - 299 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Andreou , E Ghysels
Detecting Multiple Breaks in Financial Market Volatility Dynamics
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 579 - 600 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E Andreou , E Ghysels
Tests for breaks in the conditional co-movement of asset returns
StatisticaSinica , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 1045 - 1073 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,266
RANK
90,760
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Measuring and Testing the Impact of News on Volatility

By Robert F. Engle and Victor K. Ng

Caviar: Conditional Value at Risk by Quantile Regression

By Simone Manganelli and Robert F. Engle

Dynamic Conditional Correlation - a Simple Class of Multivariate GARCH Models

By Robert F. Engle

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies