Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Analysts Strategically Provide Cash Flow Forecasts? A Multi-Theory Multi-Methods Study

65 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2011 Last revised: 5 Dec 2011

Choong-Yuel Yoo

KAIST College of Business

Jinhan Pae

Korea University Business School (KUBS)

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: November 22, 2011

Abstract

Our study delves into analysts’ motivation to issue concurrent cash flow forecasts in addition to earnings forecasts to achieve the analysts’ specific strategic objectives. To investigate this motivation, we use economics based signaling theory and psychology based support theory to develop our hypotheses and then employ multiple methods to investigate them. First, we perform archival tests using analyst forecasts found in the I/B/E/S database. Second, we analyze a hand collected sample of 412 sell-side analyst reports. Third, to complement the preceding research, we conduct field research on sell-side analysts’ forecasting activities. Our results indicate that sell-side analysts strategically choose to issue positive cash flow forecast revisions in an effort to diminish the negative impact on themselves of releasing bad (i.e. negative or downward) news in their earnings forecast revisions. Our results suggest that analyst decisions to issue cash flow forecasts are akin to managers’ strategic decisions to voluntarily disclose supplemental information to affect investors’ confidence in their primary news and may not be motivated by being an objective third party review of the future prospects of the companies they cover that institutional rhetoric suggests they are valued by capital markets for.

Keywords: analysts, cash flow forecast, earnings forecast, forecast revisions

JEL Classification: M40, M41, D82, D83, G24

Suggested Citation:

Yoo, Choong-Yuel and Pae, Jinhan and Salterio, Steven E., Do Analysts Strategically Provide Cash Flow Forecasts? A Multi-Theory Multi-Methods Study (November 22, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1966830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1966830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha , M A Chen
Who is afraid of Reg FD? The behavior and performance of sell-side analysts following the SEC's fair disclosure rules
Journal of Business , volume 79 , p. 2811 - 2834 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A S Ahmed , A S Schneible
The impact of regulation fair disclosure on investors' prior information quality -Evidence from an analysis of changes in trading volume and stock price reactions to earnings announcements
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , p. 282 - 299 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K D Allee , N Bhattacharya , E L Black , T E Christensen
Pro forma disclosure and investor sophistication: External validation of experimental evidence using archival data. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , p. 2001 - 222 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P Allison
Logistic regression using the SAS system: Theory and application Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,975
RANK
301,058
2 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies