Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measurement Errors of Expected-Return Proxies and the Implied Cost of Capital

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 13-098

62 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2011 Last revised: 11 Feb 2015

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 2015

Abstract

Despite their popularity as proxies of expected returns, the implied cost of capital's (ICC) measurement error properties are relatively unknown. Through an in-depth analysis of a popular implementation of ICCs by Gebhardt, Lee, and Swaminathan (2001) (GLS), I show that ICC measurement errors can be not only nonrandom and persistent, but can also be associated with firms' risk or growth characteristics, implying that ICC regressions are likely confounded by spurious correlations. Moreover, I document that biases in GLS' measurement errors are driven not only by analysts' systematic forecast errors but also by functional form assumptions, so that correcting for the former - a primary focus of the ICC literature - is insufficient by itself. From these findings, I argue that the choice between ICCs and realized returns involves a tradeoff between bias and efficiency, and suggest that realized returns should be used in conjunction with ICCs to make more robust inferences about expected returns.

Keywords: Expected returns, implied cost of capital, measurement errors

JEL Classification: D03, G30, O15, P34

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Charles C. Y., Measurement Errors of Expected-Return Proxies and the Implied Cost of Capital (January 2015). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 13-098, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1967706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1967706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Ang , J Liu
How to discount cashflows with time-varying expected returns
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 6 , p. 2745 - 2783 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2008
J V Binsbergen , R Koijen
Predictive regressions: A present-value approach
The Journal of Finance , volume 65 , issue 4 , p. 1439 - 1471 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Botosan
Disclosure level and the cost of equity capital
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,077
RANK
42,831
13 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies