Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fundamental Analysis and Option Returns

47 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2011 Last revised: 3 Jan 2013

Theodore H. Goodman

Purdue University - Department of Accounting

Monica Neamtiu

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

Date Written: January 3, 2013

Abstract

This paper investigates whether fundamental accounting information is appropriately priced in the options market. We find that fundamental accounting signals exhibit incremental predictive power with respect to future option returns above and beyond what is captured by implied and historical stock volatility, suggesting that the options market does not fully incorporate fundamental information into option prices. Transaction costs substantially reduce the overall profitability of hedge strategies that exploit the information in these fundamental accounting signals, but the strategies still earn economically and statistically significant returns for options with low transaction costs.

Keywords: Fundamental analysis, return, volatility, accounting signals

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G13, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Goodman, Theodore H. and Neamtiu, Monica and Zhang, Frank, Fundamental Analysis and Option Returns (January 3, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1974753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1974753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ang , R Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
Journal of Finance , volume 51 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M Barth , E So
Earnings announcements equity volatility and risk premia: evidence from equity returns and option prices Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,969
RANK
25,457
6 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies