Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bayesian Approaches to Copula Modelling

Damien, P. P. Dellaportas, N. G. Polson, D. A. Stephens, (2013), Bayesian Theory and Applications, OUP, pp. 336-358.

33 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2011 Last revised: 30 Mar 2015

Michael S. Smith

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Date Written: December 12, 2011

Abstract

Copula models have become one of the most widely used tools in the applied modelling of multivariate data. Similarly, Bayesian methods are increasingly used to obtain efficient likelihood-based inference. However, to date, there has been only limited use of Bayesian approaches in the formulation and estimation of copula models. This article aims to address this shortcoming in two ways. First, to introduce copula models and aspects of copula theory that are especially relevant for a Bayesian analysis. Second, to outline Bayesian approaches to formulating and estimating copula models, and their advantages over alternative methods.

Copulas covered include Archimedean, copulas constructed by inversion, and vine copulas; along with their interpretation as transformations. A number of parameterisations of a correlation matrix of a Gaussian copula are considered, along with hierarchical priors that allow for Bayesian selection and model averaging for each parameterisation. Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling schemes for fitting Gaussian and D-vine copulas, with and without selection, are given in detail. The relationship between the prior for the parameters of a D-vine, and the prior for a correlation matrix of a Gaussian copula, is discussed. Last, it is shown how to compute Bayesian inference when the data are discrete-valued using data augmentation. This approach generalises popular Bayesian methods for the estimation of models for multivariate binary and other ordinal data to more general copula models. Bayesian data augmentation has substantial advantages over other methods of estimation for this class of models.

Keywords: Copula, Dependence Modelling, Vines, Gaussian copula, Archimedean copula, Dependence priors, Bayesian selection, Bayesian model averaging, Discrete copulas

JEL Classification: C11, C30, C58

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Michael S., Bayesian Approaches to Copula Modelling (December 12, 2011). Damien, P. P. Dellaportas, N. G. Polson, D. A. Stephens, (2013), Bayesian Theory and Applications, OUP, pp. 336-358., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1974297 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1974297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
K Aas , C Czado , A Frigessi , H Bakken
Pair-copula constructions of multiple dependence
Insurance: Mathematics and Economics , volume 44 , p. 182 - 198 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Abramowitz , Stegun
Handbook of Mathematical Functions Posted: 1965
H Armstrong , C K Carter , K F Wong , R Kohn
Bayesian covariance matrix estimation using a mixture of decomposable graphical models
Statistics and Computing , volume 19 , p. 303 - 316 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M C Ausin , H F Lopes
Time-varying joint distribution through copulas. Computational Statistics and Data Analysis , volume 54 , p. 2383 - 2399 Posted: 2010
Load more
13 Citations
Imran Ali Khan , Sami Ur Rahman
Integrating NeuroFuzzy and Copula Model for Robust Cryptocurrency Exchange Rate Forecasting Using Environmental and Economic Data
Computational Economics Posted: 2025
Crossref
Farshad Jalili Pirani , Mohammad Reza Najafi
Multivariate Analysis of Compound Flood Hazard Across Canada's Atlantic, Pacific and Great Lakes Coastal Areas
Earth's Future , volume 10 , issue 8 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Andrew Patton
, volume 2 , p. 899 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Andrew J. Patton
A review of copula models for economic time series
Journal of Multivariate Analysis , volume 110 , p. 4 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,690
RANK
134,833
13 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Modelling Longitudinal Data Using a Pair-Copula Decomposition of Serial Dependence

By Michael S. Smith, Aleksey Min, ...

Estimation of Copula Models with Discrete Margins via Bayesian Data Augmentation

By Michael S. Smith and Mohamad A. Khaled

Bayesian Covariance Matrix Estimation Using a Mixture of Decomposable Graphical Models

By Helen Armstrong, Christopher K. Carter, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies