Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Periodic Value at Risk

9 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2011

Valentyn Khokhlov

Independent

Date Written: August 7, 2011

Abstract

Many practitioners annualize VaR just like the standard deviation. We show that this approach is incorrect, and a more sophisticated formula should be used for deriving a periodic VaR from parameters of the daily returns distribution. Another problem addressed here is the distribution of daily and periodic returns and its effect on VaR. While a fat-tailed distribution is more appropriate for modeling daily returns, we show that using the log-normal distribution is still a reasonable choice for modeling periodic returns and calculating a periodic VaR for holding periods of one month and longer.

Keywords: VaR, value at risk, risk management, security returns distributions

JEL Classification: G19, D81

Suggested Citation:

Khokhlov, Valentyn, Periodic Value at Risk (August 7, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1976213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1976213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Adrian Byrne , Frank E Smudde
Basics of Portfolio Planning and Construction // In: CFA Program Curriculum , volume 4 , p. 449 - 489 Posted: 2011
Nassim Taleb
The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable. Random House , volume 366 Posted: 2007
Philippe Jorion
Financial Risk Manager Handbook , volume 832 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,722
RANK
279,521
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies