Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Portfolio Optimization Using a Block Structure for the Covariance Matrix

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Dec 2011

David Disatnik

Tel Aviv University - Faculty of Management ; Tel Aviv University - Faculty of Management

Saggi Katz

Tel Aviv University - The Leon Recanati Graduate School of Business Administration

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 30, 2011

Abstract

Implementing in practice the classical mean-variance theory for portfolio selection often results in obtaining portfolios with large short sale positions. Also, recent papers show that, due to estimation errors, existing and rather advanced mean-variance theory-based portfolio strategies do not consistently outperform the naïve 1/N portfolio that invests equally across N risky assets. In this paper, we introduce a portfolio strategy that generates a portfolio, with no short sale positions, that can outperform the 1/N portfolio. The strategy is investing in a global minimum variance portfolio (GMVP) that is constructed using an easy to calculate block structure for the covariance matrix of asset returns. Using this new block structure, the weights of the stocks in the GMVP can be found analytically, and as long as simple and directly computable conditions are met, these weights are positive.

Keywords: Portfolio Optimization, Short Sale Constraints, Block Covariance Matrix, 1/N portfolio

JEL Classification: G11, C13

Suggested Citation:

Disatnik, David J. and Disatnik, David J. and Katz, Saggi, Portfolio Optimization Using a Block Structure for the Covariance Matrix (December 30, 2011). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1977637
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,380
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies