Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trading Rules Over Fundamentals: A Stock Price Formula for High Frequency Trading, Bubbles and Crashes

58 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2012 Last revised: 23 Jan 2012

G. Charles-Cadogan

University of Leicester

Date Written: January 21, 2012

Abstract

In this paper we present a simple closed form stock price formula, which captures empirical regularities of high frequency trading (HFT), based on two factors: (1) exposure to hedge factor; and (2) hedge factor volatility. Thus, the parsimonious formula is not based on fundamental valuation. For applications, we first show that in tandem with a cost of carry model, it allows us to use exposure to and volatility of E-mini contracts to estimate dynamic hedge ratios, and mark-to-market capital gains on contracts. Second, we show that for given exposure to hedge factor, and suitable specification of hedge factor volatility, HFT stock price has a closed form double exponential representation. There, in periods of uncertainty, if volatility is above historic average, a relatively small short selling trade strategy is magnified exponentially, and the stock price plummets when such strategies are phased locked for a sufficient large number of traders. Third, we demonstrate how asymmetric response to news is incorporated in the stock price by and through an endogenous EGARCH type volatility process for past returns; and find that intraday returns have a U-shaped pattern inherited from HFT strategies. Fourth, we show that for any given sub-period, capital gains from trading is bounded from below (crash), i.e. flight to quality, but not from above (bubble), i.e. confidence, when phased locked trade strategies violate prerequisites of van der Corput's Lemma for oscillatory integrals. Fifth, we provide a taxonomy of trading strategies which reveal that high HFT Sharpe ratios, and profitability, rests on exposure to hedge factor, trading costs, volatility thresholds, and algorithm ability to predict volatility induced by bid-ask bounce or otherwise. Thus, extant regulatory proposals to control price dynamics of select stocks, i.e., pause rules such as ''limit up/limit down" bands over 5-minute rolling windows, may mitigate but not stop future market crashes or price bubbles from manifesting in underlying indexes that exhibit HFT stock price dynamics.

Keywords: high frequency trading, hedge factor volatility, price reversal, market crash, price bubbles, statistical arbitrage, van der Korput's Lemma, Sharpe ratio, cost of carry

JEL Classification: C02, G11, G12, G13

Suggested Citation:

Charles-Cadogan, G., Trading Rules Over Fundamentals: A Stock Price Formula for High Frequency Trading, Bubbles and Crashes (January 21, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1977561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1977561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
A Theory of Intraday Patterns: Volume and Price Variability
Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1988
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970-08
Crossref
I Aldridge
How fast Can You Really Trade? Futures Magazine Posted: 2011
M Avellaneda , J.-H Lee
Statistical arbitrage in the US equities Market
Quantitative Finance , volume 10 , issue 7 , p. 761 - 782 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,024
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,596
RANK
18,272
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies