Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Management Earnings Guidance be Pooled? Classifying Management Earnings Guidance into Capital Market, Opportunistic, and Disclose or Abstain Rationales: Implications for Research

Simon School Working Paper No. FR 12-03

51 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2012 Last revised: 26 Oct 2012

Edward Xuejun Li

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Jerold L. Zimmerman

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Date Written: October 24, 2012

Abstract

Prior studies identify several motives for why firms release management earnings forecasts (MFs). A common feature of such studies is they pool MFs when drawing inferences about a specific motive. By ignoring the heterogeneous rationales managers have to issue MFs, pooling could lead to biased inferences. To address the issue, we develop an approach that classifies MFs into one of the three rationales: capital market incentives, compliance with Rule 10b-5 to disclose material nonpublic information or abstain from trading, or managerial opportunism. Our classification scheme indicates that 65% of MFs are released for capital market incentives, 22% are issued to comply with Rule 10b-5, and 13% are opportunistic. Four sets of empirical tests provide construct validity for the classification scheme. Such tests include replications of earlier studies where we find that our MF classification scheme increases power and changes prior inferences regarding MFs. Classifying MFs into our three categories will aid future researchers in constructing better specified and more powerful tests of the economic determinants and consequences of management's decision to issue MFs.

Keywords: Management forecasts, Guidance, Insider trading, Voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G18, K22

Suggested Citation:

Li, Edward Xuejun and Wasley, Charles E. and Zimmerman, Jerold L., Should Management Earnings Guidance be Pooled? Classifying Management Earnings Guidance into Capital Market, Opportunistic, and Disclose or Abstain Rationales: Implications for Research (October 24, 2012). Simon School Working Paper No. FR 12-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1978968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1978968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J Graham , C Harvey , S Rajgopal
The Economic Implications of Corporate Financial Reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 3 - 73 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Haaijer , W Kamakura , M Wedel
Response Latencies in the Analysis of Conjoint Choice Experiments
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 37 , p. 376 - 382 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J A Hausman , D A Wise
A Conditional Probit Model for Qualitative Choice: Discrete Decisions Recognizing Interdependence and Heterogeneous Preferences
Econometrica , volume 46 , p. 403 - 426 Posted: 1978
Crossref
P Healy , A Hutton , K Palepu
Stock Performance and Intermediation Changes Surrounding Sustained Increases in Disclosure
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , p. 485 - 520 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
505
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,309
RANK
128,124
9 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies