Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do Management Earnings Forecasts Convey About the Macroeconomy?

Journal of Accounting Research, 2013, Vol. 51(2), 225-266

53 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2012 Last revised: 2 Jun 2014

Samuel B. Bonsall

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Zahn Bozanic

Florida State University

Paul E. Fischer

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department; University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: January 15, 2013

Abstract

We decompose quantitative management earnings forecasts into macroeconomic and firm-specific components to determine the extent to which voluntary disclosure provided by management has macroeconomic information content. We provide evidence that the forecasts of bellwether firms, which are defined as firms in which macroeconomic news explains the greatest amount of variation in the forecasts, provide timely information to the market about the macroeconomy when bundled with earnings announcements. Further, we show that bellwether firms provide timely information about both industry-specific events and broader economic events. Finally, we document that the macroeconomic news in individual forecasts is more pronounced for bad news and point forecasts.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, management earnings forecasts, bellwether firms, macroeconomic risk

JEL Classification: E44, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bonsall, Samuel B. and Bozanic, Zahn and Fischer, Paul E. and Fischer, Paul E., What Do Management Earnings Forecasts Convey About the Macroeconomy? (January 15, 2013). Journal of Accounting Research, 2013, Vol. 51(2), 225-266, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1980195 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1980195
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? the nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Baginski
Intra-industry information transfers associated with management forecasts of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 196 - 216 Posted: 1987
Crossref
S P Baginski , E J Conrad , J M Hassell
The effects of management forecast precision on equity pricing and on the assessment of earnings uncertainty
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 913 - 927 Posted: 1993
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty. Working paper Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
571
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,140
RANK
109,965
42 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stock Returns, Aggregate Earnings Surprises, and Behavioral Finance

By Jonathan Lewellen, S.p. Kothari, ...

Explaining Returns with Cash-Flow Proxies

By Peter Andrew Hecht and Tuomo Vuolteenaho

Accruals and Aggregate Stock Market Returns

By David Hirshleifer, Kewei Hou, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies