Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Specification Sensitivity in Right-Tailed Unit Root Testing for Explosive Behavior

Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1842

32 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2012

Peter C. B. Phillips

University of Auckland Business School; Yale University - Cowles Foundation; Singapore Management University - School of Economics

Shuping Shi

Macquarie University

Jun Yu

Singapore Management University - School of Economics; Singapore Management University - Lee Kong Chian School of Business

Date Written: January 9, 2012

Abstract

Right-tailed unit root tests have proved promising for detecting exuberance in economic and financial activities. Like left-tailed tests, the limit theory and test performance are sensitive to the null hypothesis and the model specification used in parameter estimation. This paper aims to provide some empirical guidelines for the practical implementation of right-tailed unit root tests, focusing on the sup ADF test of Phillips, Wu and Yu (2011), which implements a right-tailed ADF test repeatedly on a sequence of forward sample recursions. We analyze and compare the limit theory of the sup ADF test under different hypotheses and model specifications. The size and power properties of the test under various scenarios are examined in simulations and some recommendations for empirical practice are given. Empirical applications to the NASDAQ and to Australian and New Zealand housing data illustrate these specification issues and reveal their practical importance in testing.

Keywords: Unit root test, Mildly explosive process, Recursive regression, Size and power

JEL Classification: C15, C22

Suggested Citation:

Phillips, Peter C. B. and Shi, Shuping and Yu, Jun, Specification Sensitivity in Right-Tailed Unit Root Testing for Explosive Behavior (January 9, 2012). Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 1842, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1981951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1981951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
T W Anderson
On asymptotic distributions of estimates of parameters of stochastic difference equations
Annals of Mathematical Statistics , volume 30 , p. 676 - 687 Posted: 1959
Crossref
R Davidson , J G Mackinnon
Econometric Theory and Methods Posted: 2004
B T Diba , H I Grossman
Explosive rational bubbles in stock prices?
The American Economic Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 520 - 530 Posted: 1988
Crossref
D A Dickey , R B William , R B Miller
Unit roots in time series models: Tests and implications
The American Statistician , volume 40 , p. 12 - 26 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,189
RANK
478,373
9 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University Lee Kong Chian School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

On the Inception of Rational Bubbles in Stock Prices

By Behzad Diba and Herschel I. Grossman

Rational Bubbles in Stock Prices?

By Behzad Diba and Herschel I. Grossman

Intrinsic Bubbles: the Case of Stock Prices

By Kenneth Froot and Maurice Obstfeld

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies