Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robust Estimation and Inference for Heavy Tailed Nonlinear GARCH

37 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2012

Jonathan B. Hill

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill – Department of Economics

Date Written: January 10, 2012

Abstract

We develop new tail-trimmed QML estimators for nonlinear GARCH models with possibly heavy tailed errors. Tail-trimming allows both identification of the true parameter and asymptotic normality. In heavy tailed cases the rate of convergence is below but arbitrarily close to root-n, the highest possible amongst M-estimators for GARCH with errors that have an infinite fourth moment, and faster than QML. We present a consistent estimator of the covariance matrix that permits classic inference without knowledge of the rate of convergence. Finally, a simulation study shows our estimators trump existing ones for sharpness and approximate normality, and we apply them to financial returns data.

Suggested Citation:

Hill, Jonathan B., Robust Estimation and Inference for Heavy Tailed Nonlinear GARCH (January 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1982925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1982925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
J Agulló , C Croux , S Van Aelst
The Multivariate Least-Trimmed Squares Estimator
J. Mult. Anal , volume 99 , p. 311 - 338 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Basrak , R A Davis , T Mikosch
Regular Variation of GARCH Processes
Stoch. Proc. Appl , volume 99 , p. 95 - 115 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K Boudt , C Croux
Robust M-Estimation of Multivariate GARCH Models
Comp. Stat. Data Anal , volume 54 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Carrasco , X Chen
Mixing and Moment Properties of Various GARCH and Stochastic Volatility Models
Econometric Theory , volume 18 , p. 17 - 39 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,786
RANK
672,649
3 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Moment Condition Tests for Heavy-Tailed Time Series

By Jonathan B. Hill and Mike Aguilar

Heavy-Tail and Plug-In Robust Consistent Conditional Moment Tests of Functional Form

By Jonathan B. Hill

Robust M-Estimation for Heavy Tailed Nonlinear AR-GARCH

By Jonathan B. Hill

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies