Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Earnings Fixated Investors Survive in a Competitive Securities Market? Implications for Sustained Price Anomalies and Mark-to-Market Accounting

CAAA Annual Conference 2012

32 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2012

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Guo Ying Luo

McMaster University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 15, 2011

Abstract

We model the dynamic survival of earnings fixated investors in a competitive securities market that allows for learning and arbitrage and that is populated by heterogeneous investors. Our model is distinct from those based on aggressive trading by overconfident investors. We prove that in the absence of noise traders, rational investors will drive out earnings fixated investors from the market in the long-run. More interestingly, we show that in a market with noise traders, some proportion of earnings fixated investors survive in long-run equilibrium for all feasible model parameter values. Furthermore, under no circumstances can the earnings fixated investors be driven out of the market completely. On the contrary, for some parameter values, the earnings fixated investors drive out the rational investors entirely. These results rationalize the long-run sustainability of common pricing anomalies. They also highlight potential benefits to society of mark-to-market accounting.

Keywords: earning fixated investors, accounting conservatism, mark to market, survival, evolution

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Luo, Guo Ying, Can Earnings Fixated Investors Survive in a Competitive Securities Market? Implications for Sustained Price Anomalies and Mark-to-Market Accounting (November 15, 2011). CAAA Annual Conference 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1984850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1984850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
J S Abarbanell
Do Analysts' Earnings Forecasts Incorporate Information in Prior Stock Price Changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of Analysts' Overreaction/Underreaction to Earnings Information as an Explanation for Anomalous Stock Price Behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1208 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
D Aboody
Recognition Versus Disclosure in the Oil and Gas Industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,267
RANK
441,693
3 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies