Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Uniformity in Accounting Measurement: A Common Understanding

40 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2012 Last revised: 18 May 2017

Timothy W. Shields

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics; Chapman University - Economic Science Institute

Baohua Xin

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: May 2017

Abstract

We theoretically and experimentally investigate the effect of uniformity in accounting measurement on value enhancing coordination in the presence of strategic uncertainty. We use a setting where two agents have differential information due to non-uniform accounting structures about the gains from coordinated investment, and derive equilibrium predictions that coordination is expected to occur when each agent's behavior relies only upon their own beliefs of the fundamental uncertainty, while higher-order iterative reasoning of beliefs prevents coordination and wealth creation. Our experimental design allows us to control for various behavioral phenomena and examine participants' decisions across different accounting regimes as to isolate the coordination effect of strategic uncertainty resulting from non-uniform accounting measurement. Our results suggest that when both fundamental and strategic uncertainty arises from non-uniform accounting measurement, participants behave as if they exercise higher-order iterative reasoning, albeit only to a limited degree, that can potentially cause breakdown of welfare enhancing coordination. Therefore, not only the information, but also the shared understanding of the information, can affect wealth creation. These results can offer insight into when more uniform measurement rules are desirable.

Note: An earlier version of this paper was titled "Higher-Order Beliefs in Simple Trading Models".

Keywords: information asymmetry, experiment, strategic uncertainty, higher-order beliefs, iterative reasoning

JEL Classification: C72, C91, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Shields, Timothy W. and Xin, Baohua, Real Effects of Uniformity in Accounting Measurement: A Common Understanding (May 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1985676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1985676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty Contests and Iterated Expectations in Asset Markets
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Anctil , J Dickhaut , C Kanodia , B Shapiro
Information Transparency and Coordination Failure: Theory and Experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 195 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R J Aumann
Agreeing to Disagree
The Annals of Statistics , volume 4 , p. 1236 - 1275 Posted: 1976
Crossref
S Banerjee , R Kaniel , I Kremer
Price Drift as an Outcome of Differences in HigherOrder Beliefs
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 9 , p. 3707 - 3734 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,486
RANK
228,376
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies