Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Information Demand: Evidence from Google Searches Around Earnings Announcements

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2012 Last revised: 1 Feb 2012

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Darren T. Roulstone

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Date Written: January 24, 2012

Abstract

The objective of this study is to investigate factors that influence investor information demand around earnings announcements and to provide insights into how variation in information demand impacts the capital market response to earnings. The internet is one channel through which public information is disseminated to investors and we propose that one way that investors express their demand for public information is via Google searches. We find that abnormal Google search increases about two weeks prior to the earnings announcement, spikes markedly at the announcement, and continues at high levels for a period after the announcement. This finding suggests that information diffusion is not instantaneous with the release of the earnings information, but rather is spread over a period surrounding the announcement. We also find that information demand is positively associated with media attention and news, and is negatively associated with investor distraction. When investors search for more information in the days just prior to the announcement, pre-announcement price and volume changes reflect more of the upcoming earnings news and there is less of a price and volume response when the news is announced. This result suggests that when investors demand more information about a firm, the information content of the earnings announcement is partially preempted.

Keywords: Information Demand, Earnings Announcements, Information Content, Price Discovery

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Michael S. and Roulstone, Darren T. and Thornock, Jacob, Investor Information Demand: Evidence from Google Searches Around Earnings Announcements (January 24, 2012). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1991455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
B Ayers , R Freeman
Evidence that Analyst Following and Institutional Ownership Accelerate the Pricing of Future Earnings
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 67 Posted: 2003
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How Much New Information Is There in Earnings?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 975 - 1016 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L Bamber
The Information Content of Annual Earnings Releases: A Trading Volume Approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 40 - 56 Posted: 1986
Crossref
L Bamber
Unexpected Earnings, Firm Size, and Trading Volume Around Quarterly Earnings Announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , p. 510 - 532 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,039
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,306
RANK
18,036
134 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies