Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Two-Block Covariance Matrix and the CAPM

International Journal of Portfolio Analysis & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Feb 2012

David Disatnik

Tel Aviv University - Faculty of Management ; Tel Aviv University - Faculty of Management

Simon Benninga

Tel Aviv University - Faculty of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 31, 2012

Abstract

The classical assumptions of the Capital Asset Pricing Model do not ensure obtaining a tangency (market) portfolio in which all the risky assets appear with positive proportions. This paper gives an additional set of assumptions that ensure obtaining such a portfolio. Our new set of assumptions mainly deals with the structure of the covariance matrix of the risky assets returns. The structure we suggest for the covariance matrix is of a two-block type. We derive analytically sufficient conditions for a matrix of this type to produce a long-only tangency portfolio (as well as a long-only global minimum variance portfolio).

Keywords: portfolio optimization, block covariance matrix, tangency portfolio, market portfolio, CAPM

JEL Classification: G11, C13

Suggested Citation:

Disatnik, David J. and Disatnik, David J. and Benninga, Simon, The Two-Block Covariance Matrix and the CAPM (January 31, 2012). International Journal of Portfolio Analysis & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1996633
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,683
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies