Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mathematical Analysis and Numerical Methods for Pricing Pension Plans Allowing Early Retirement

19 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2012

Andrea Pascucci

University of Bologna - Department of Mathematics

Carlos Vázquez Cendón

University of Coruña - Department of Mathematics

Maria del Carmen Calvo-Garrido

University of Coruña - Department of Mathematics

Date Written: February 3, 2012

Abstract

In this paper, we address the mathematical analysis and numerical solution of a model for pricing a defined benefit pension plan. More precisely, the benefits received by the member of the plan depend on the average salary and early retirement is allowed. Thus, the mathematical model is posed as an obstacle problem associated to a Kolmogorov equation in the time region where the salary is being averaged. Previously to the initial averaging date, a nonhomogeneous one factor Black-Scholes equation is posed. After stating the model, existence and regularity of solutions are studied. Moreover, appropriate numerical methods based on a Lagrange-Galerkin discretization and an augmented Lagrangian active set method are proposed. Finally, some numerical examples illustrate the performance of the numerical techniques and the properties of the solution and the free boundary.

Keywords: retirement plans, options pricing, Kolmogorov equations, complementarity problem, numerical methods, augmented Lagrangian formulation

JEL Classification: G00, G13, G23

Suggested Citation:

Pascucci, Andrea and Vázquez Cendón, Carlos and Calvo-Garrido, Maria del Carmen, Mathematical Analysis and Numerical Methods for Pricing Pension Plans Allowing Early Retirement (February 3, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1998841 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1998841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Bermúdez , M R Nogueiras , C Vázquez
Numerical analysis of convection-diffusion-reaction pro-blems with higher order characteristics finite elements. Part I: Time discretization
SIAM J. Numer. Anal , volume 44 , p. 1829 - 1853 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Bermúdez , M R Nogueiras , C Vázquez
Numerical analysis of convection-diffusion-reaction problems with higher order characteristics finite elements. Part II: Fully discretized scheme and quadrature formulas
SIAM J. Numer. Anal , volume 44 , p. 1854 - 1876 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Bermúdez , M R Nogueiras , C Vázquez
Numerical solution of variational inequalities for pricing Asian options by higher order Lagrange-Galerkin methods
Appl. Numer. Math , volume 56 , p. 1256 - 1270 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Bermúdez , M R Nogueiras , C Vázquez
Comparison of two algorithms to solve a fixed-strike Amerasian options pricing problem
International Series in Numerical Mathematics , volume 154 , p. 95 - 106 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,107
RANK
355,741
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Pensions as Retirement Income Insurance

By Zvi Bodie

Inflation, Index-Linked Bonds, and Asset Allocation

By Zvi Bodie

Should Private Pensions Be Indexed?

By Martin S. Feldstein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies