Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exponent of Cross-Sectional Dependence: Estimation and Inference

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 3722

46 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2012

Natalia Bailey

Monash University

George Kapetanios

King's College, London

M. Hashem Pesaran

University of Cambridge; University of Southern California - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 31, 2012

Abstract

An important issue in the analysis of cross-sectional dependence which has received renewed interest in the past few years is the need for a better understanding of the extent and nature of such cross dependencies. In this paper we focus on measures of cross-sectional dependence and how such measures are related to the behaviour of the aggregates defined as cross-sectional averages. We endeavour to determine the rate at which the cross-sectional weighted average of a set of variables appropriately demeaned, tends to zero. One parameterisation sets the exponent of the cross-sectional dimension, N, being between 1/2 and 1. We refer to this as the exponent of cross-sectional dependence. We derive an estimator of this exponent from the estimated variance of the cross-sectional average of the variables under consideration. We propose bias corrected estimators, derive their asymptotic properties and consider a number of extensions. We include a detailed Monte Carlo study supporting the theoretical results. Finally, we undertake an empirical investigation of the exponent of cross-sectional dependence using the S&P 500 data-set, and a large number of macroeconomic variables across and within countries.

Keywords: cross correlations, cross-sectional dependence, cross-sectional averages, weak and strong factor models, capital asset pricing model

JEL Classification: C210, C320

Suggested Citation:

Bailey, Natalia and Kapetanios, George and Pesaran, M. Hashem, Exponent of Cross-Sectional Dependence: Estimation and Inference (January 31, 2012). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 3722, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1998062 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1998062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J Bai
Inferential Theory for Factor Models of Large Dimensions
Econometrica , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 171 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bai , S Ng
Confidence Intervals for Diffusion Index Forecasts and Inference for Factor-Augmented Regressions
Econometrica , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 1133 - 1150 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Z D Bai , J W Silverstein
No Eigenvalues Outside the Support of the Limiting Spectral Distribution of Large Dimensional Sample Covariance Matrices
Annals of Probability , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 316 - 345 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Cesa-Bianchi , M H Pesaran , A Rebucci , T Xu
China's Emergence in the World Economy and Business Cycles in Latin America
Journal of the Latin American and Caribbean Economic Association Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,579
RANK
181,327
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Exponent of Cross-Sectional Dependence: Estimation and Inference

By Natalia Bailey, George Kapetanios, ...

Reassessing FHA Risk

By Diego F. Aragon, Andrew Caplin, ...

Testing CAPM with a Large Number of Assets

By M. Hashem Pesaran and Takashi Yamagata

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies