Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agitated Losses and Relaxed Gains

Posted: 6 Feb 2012 Last revised: 1 Mar 2012

Eldad Yechiam

Technion-Israel Institute of Technology - The William Davidson Faculty of Industrial Engineering & Management

Gal Zahavi

Technion-Israel Institute of Technology - The William Davidson Faculty of Industrial Engineering & Management

Date Written: February 5, 2012

Abstract

One of the robust regularities of stock markets is the asymmetric relation between stock returns and their subsequent volatility, commonly referred to as the 'leverage effect'. In the current paper we present a psychological model linking between gains and losses, choice volatility, and market prices of publicly traded stocks, based on a recent attentional model of losses, that accounts for this effect as well as some other regularities of the stock market. The attentional effect of losses implies greater exploratory search behavior and therefore more choice volatility (i.e., incidents of switching between choice options) following monetary losses. Our study begins with an empirical examination using an abstract experiential task. We find increased choice volatility in tasks with losses compared to tasks with no losses, and that this heightened volatility is maintained even in subsequent tasks that do not include losses. Conversely, gains are found to have an opposite 'relaxing' effect on choice volatility. Both phenomena are observed even in the absence of loss aversion. We follow with an agent based model of the stock market and demonstrate that embedding a simple increase in choice volatility following losses compared to gains yields increased price volatility subsequent to losses, while also providing sufficient conditions for four other major stock market regularities in a unified framework.

Keywords: loss aversion, attention, stock market, volatility, leverage effect

Suggested Citation:

Yechiam, Eldad and Zahavi, Gal, Agitated Losses and Relaxed Gains (February 5, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1999678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1999678
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,538
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Anomalies and Market Efficiency

By G. William Schwert

Anomalies and Market Efficiency

By G. William Schwert

Evidence on the Speed of Convergence to Market Efficiency

By Tarun Chordia, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies