Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of 'Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach'

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Feb 2012

Joseph Gerakos

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College

Date Written: January 31, 2012

Abstract

Dechow, Hutton, Kim, and Sloan (2012) propose a novel approach to identify accruals-based earnings management. Their approach is based on the concept that accruals-based earnings management made in one period must reverse in a subsequent period. By attempting to model the dynamic nature of accruals-based earnings management, they make a significant contribution to the literature on identifying earnings management. There are, however, several concerns that limit the effectiveness of their approach. First, it relies on the traditional methods of estimating discretionary accruals. Their approach is therefore subject to the estimation problems of these traditional methods. Second, their approach does not take advantage of dynamic features of the firm’s accounting numbers arising from the reversal of manipulated accruals. It instead tests whether there are group differences in the levels of discretionary accruals based on whether firms engaged in earnings management. Third, their approach assumes that the researcher already knows the periods in which earnings management occurred and reversed. It provides no guidance in identifying these periods.

Suggested Citation:

Gerakos, Joseph, Discussion of 'Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach' (January 31, 2012). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2002090
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,739
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies