Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adopting EVA in Corporate Governance Policy: How far EVA can Influence the Shareholder Supervision toward Company Performance: Empirical Research from one of the Emerging Market sample in South East Asia

Working Paper Series

Posted: 18 Feb 2012 Last revised: 6 Nov 2012

Dimas Mukhlas Widiantoro

Cracow University of Economics; Universitas Gadjah Mada; University of Agder; Academic Collaboration and Research Network

Date Written: October 25, 2012

Abstract

This research is formulating the cause of agency conflict into three factors. The first one is agent unsatisfactory on the existing compensation system. The second factor is high ration of free cash flow in the company. Then the third one is the absence of good monitoring on the company operation.

Based on those three factors, this research aims to find a method to resolve the problem. One of the solutions offered is EVA®, which is relatively new as an agency conflict method in Indonesia. The proxy variables on agency conflict are investment value and total asset turn over. The control variables are dividend payout ratio and leverage. To analyze the problem, paired t-test and pool least square test were used on companies with best EVA® performance during 2002-2011.

There are two research questions that being addressed in this research. The first, if there are any differences in agency conflict between companies that apply EVA® in the compensation system with negative EVA® companies. The Second is to analyze if EVA® will able to mitigate the agency conflict within the company.

The research finds out that companies with better EVA® tend to have lower agency conflict, and EVA® can be used to prompt control variable to explain its influence on Dependent variable or agency conflict potential.

Keywords: EVA, new investment, total asset turn over, dividend payout ratio, leverage, SWA index, agency conflict

Suggested Citation:

Widiantoro, Dimas Mukhlas, Adopting EVA in Corporate Governance Policy: How far EVA can Influence the Shareholder Supervision toward Company Performance: Empirical Research from one of the Emerging Market sample in South East Asia (October 25, 2012). Working Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2006320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2006320
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,059
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies