Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a Systemic Approach in Financial Communication Research: Evidence from Exploratory Case Studies

33rd EAA Annual Congress, Istanbul, Turkey, May 19-21, 2010

23 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2012

Paola Ramassa

Università degli Studi di Genova

Date Written: May 19, 2010

Abstract

Accounting literature adopts a variety of approaches to the analysis of financial communication, mainly focusing on determinants, attributes and effects of specific kinds of disclosure and documents. This study adopts a framework based on information theory elements taking the perspective that financial communication is a bidirectional and multi-channel process, which can be conveniently analysed as a complex system.

The primary purpose of this paper is to explore that system shifting the focus on the corporate perspective and on activities carried out to prepare messages to be disclosed to the financial community. The analysis of that topic involves actors’ roles and corporate procedures, which seem of particular interest in order to advance the current understanding of financial communication. In particular, the paper investigates activities related to preparation and issue of specific documents and other financial messages so to understand whether these operations are managed as a coordinated process. This could shed light over an issue little investigated by existing literature and deliver insight into corporate financial reporting policies, providing a basis for further research. The communication process is explored adopting the case study method, which is a not common choice in disclosure studies even though it is a highly suitable strategy when research is aimed at achieving in-depth understanding of complex phenomena.

Keywords: financial communication, financial disclosure, case study

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ramassa, Paola, Towards a Systemic Approach in Financial Communication Research: Evidence from Exploratory Case Studies (May 19, 2010). 33rd EAA Annual Congress, Istanbul, Turkey, May 19-21, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2007042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2007042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
A H Adelberg
Narrative disclosures contained in financial reports: mean of communication or manipulation?
Accounting and Business Research Posted: 1979
Crossref
M Allegrini
Funzioni assegnate e posizionamento organizzativo. Un'indagine empirica
Atti del XXX Convegno Nazionale ANDAF , p. 13 - 18 Posted: 2005
A Amaduzzi
L'azienda nel suo sistema e nell'ordine delle sue rilevazioni
Utet) Posted: 1963
C Bagnoli
The different ways of preparing management report of Italian listed companies, and their determinants
International Journal of Accounting Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 2 , p. 1 - 2 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,461
RANK
564,093
2 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Production Process of Corporate Web Reporting and the Role of Online Service Providers

By Alberto Quagli and Paola Ramassa

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies