Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Efficient and Feasible Inference for the Components of Financial Variation Using Blocked Multipower Variation

44 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2012

Per A. Mykland

University of Chicago - Department of Statistics

Neil Shephard

Harvard University

Kevin Sheppard

University of Oxford - Department of Economics; University of Oxford - Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance

Date Written: February 21, 2012

Abstract

High frequency financial data allows us to learn more about volatility, volatility of volatility and jumps. One of the key techniques developed in the literature in recent years has been bipower variation and its multipower extension, which estimates time-varying volatility robustly to jumps. We improve the scope and efficiency of multipower variation by the use of a more sophisticated exploitation of high frequency data. This suggests very significant improvements in the power of jump tests. It also yields efficient estimates of the integrated variance of the continuous part of a semimartingale. The paper also shows how to extend the theory to the case where there is microstructure in the observations and derive the first nonparametric high frequency estimator of the volatility of volatility. A fundamental device in the paper is a new type of result showing path-by-path (strong) approximation between multipower and the (unobserved) RV based on the continuous part of the process.

Keywords: bipower variation, jumps, market microstructure noise, multipower variation, non-parametric analysis, quadratic variation, semimartingale, volatility, volatility of volatility

JEL Classification: C01, C02, C13, C14, C22, D53, D81

Suggested Citation:

Mykland, Per A. and Shephard, Neil and Sheppard, Kevin Keith, Efficient and Feasible Inference for the Components of Financial Variation Using Blocked Multipower Variation (February 21, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2008690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2008690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M Abramowitz , I A Stegun
Handbook of Mathematical Functions Posted: 1970
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold
Roughing it up: Including jump components in the measurement, modeling and forecasting of return volatility
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 89 , p. 707 - 720 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold
Parametric and nonparametric measurement of volatility
Handbook of Financial Econometrics , p. 67 - 138 Posted: 2009
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , P Labys
Great realizations
Risk , volume 13 , p. 105 - 108 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,797
RANK
161,650
19 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Modeling and Forecasting Realized Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

Modeling and Forecasting Realized Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

The Distribution of Realized Exchange Rate Volatility

By Torben G. Andersen, Tim Bollerslev, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies