Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Value-at-Risk: A Comparative Study of the Extreme Value Theory and Transformed Kernel Density Approach

Posted: 22 Feb 2012 Last revised: 28 Aug 2012

Yi Ling Low

The University of Melbourne

Jonathan Dark

University of Melbourne; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: November 10, 2008

Abstract

This paper reports on the results of an extensive simulation study that compares three methods of estimating the value at risk of stock portfolios. Simulating returns from a wide range of data generating processes, we found that the peak-over-threshold (POT) method outperforms the transformed kernel density and the generalized extreme value block-maxima approaches. The POT approach is capable of producing accurate estimates of the tail quantiles, and for most of the cases considered, the observed violation rates are insignificantly different from the estimated quantiles.

Keywords: Extreme Value Theory, Transformed Kernel Density

JEL Classification: C10, C14

Suggested Citation:

Low, Yi Ling and Dark, Jonathan, Estimating the Value-at-Risk: A Comparative Study of the Extreme Value Theory and Transformed Kernel Density Approach (November 10, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2009130 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2009130
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,827
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies