Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Discrete-Time Framework of the Arbitrage-Free Nelson-Siegel Class of Term Structure Models

68 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2012 Last revised: 20 Mar 2012

Linlin Niu

Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE); Xiamen University - School of Economics

Gengming Zeng

Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Date Written: March 4, 2012

Abstract

We derive the discrete-time arbitrage-free Nelson-Siegel class of term structure models with an exact solution and proof of uniqueness. We design a fast and reliable estimation procedure based on reduced-dimension optimization with multistep embedded regressions. After an analytical illustration, we also show empirically that arbitrage-free restrictions have a bounded advantage for in-sample fit and out-of-sample forecast, compared to its reduced-form counterpart. However, the arbitrage-free model is a powerful tool for analysing risk premia associated with Level, Slope and Curvature factors. Our empirical results have interesting implications for both the US bond yield conundrum of 2004-05 and the recent financial crisis.

Keywords: Yield curve, term structure of interest rates, factor models, state-space models

JEL Classification: G1, E4, C5

Suggested Citation:

Niu, Linlin and Zeng, Gengming, The Discrete-Time Framework of the Arbitrage-Free Nelson-Siegel Class of Term Structure Models (March 4, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2015858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2015858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Ang , M Piazzesi
A no-arbitrage vector autoregression of term structure dynamics with macroeconomic and latent variables
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 50 , p. 745 - 787 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Bernanke , V Reinhart , B Sack
Monetary policy alternatives at the zero bound: An empirical assessment
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 2 , p. 1 - 78 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J H E Christensen , F X Diebold , G D Rudebusch
An arbitrage-free generalized Nelson-Siegel term structure model
Econometrics Journal , volume 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J H E Christensen , F X Diebold , G D Rudebusch
The a¢ ne arbitrage-free class of Nelson-Siegel term structure models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 164 , p. 4 - 20 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,909
RANK
179,657
4 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies