Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rate of Market Efficiency

62 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2012 Last revised: 13 Oct 2014

Raša Karapandža

EBS Universität für Wirtschaft und Recht - EBS Business School - Department of Finance and Accounting; New York University (NYU) - New York University, Abu Dhabi

Jose M. Marin

Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: October 12, 2014

Abstract

We define two measures: the Model Performance Ratio (MPR), which ranks asset pricing models based on their ability to price random portfolios, and the Rate of Market Efficiency (RME), which measures market efficiency assuming the best pricing model (largest MPR). We find that: (i) market efficiency has almost doubled in the last four decades; (ii) the CAPM is the best performing model among five linear factor specifications. The first result is in sharp contrast with the evolution of thinking about market efficiency and the rise of behavioral finance; the second, casts serious doubts on the Fama and French paradigm.

Keywords: market efficiency, MEH, Fama-French, pricing anomalies, momentum

JEL Classification: G12, G14, C58, N20, B26

Suggested Citation:

Karapandža, Raša and Marin, Jose M., The Rate of Market Efficiency (October 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2024552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2024552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Rolf W Banz , William J Breen
Sample-Dependent Results Using Accounting and Market Data: Some Evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 779 - 793 Posted: 1986
Crossref
William Beaver , Maureen Mcnichols , Richard Price
Delisting Returns and their Effect on Accounting-based, Market Anomalies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 368 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Bernhard , Jacob Victor , James Thomas , Wahlen
Accounting-based stock price anomalies: separating market inefficiencies from risk
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 89 - 136 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Mark T Bradshaw , A Scott , Richard G Richardson , Sloan
The relation between corporate financing activities, analysts' forecasts and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 53 - 85 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,706
RANK
34,279
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies