Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Out-of-Sample Prediction of Annual Operating Cash Flow: A Comparison of Regression and Naïve Forecast Models

44 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2012

Rick N. Francis

University of Texas at El Paso

Lori Olsen

Central Michigan University

Date Written: December 16, 2011

Abstract

This study proposes that a no-change naïve forecast of (operating) cash flow is as accurate as time-series (firm-specific) and cross-sectional regression forecasts of cash flow. The study first demonstrates that cross-sectional regression forecasts of cash flow with firm-size controls are as accurate as time-series regression forecasts. Next the study confirms the expectation that a naïve forecast is as accurate as the regression model forecasts. Finally, the study identifies apparent misapplications of Theil’s U-statistic, which overstate the ability of regression forecast models to outperform a naïve forecast model.

Keywords: predict, forecast, cash flow, Out of Sample

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Rick N. and Olsen, Lori, The Out-of-Sample Prediction of Annual Operating Cash Flow: A Comparison of Regression and Naïve Forecast Models (December 16, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2025224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2025224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
J Bai
Testing for parameter constancy in linear regressions: An empirical distribution function approach
Econometrica , volume 64 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S Bandyopadhyay , C Chen , A Huang , R Jha
Accounting conservatism and the temporal trends in current earnings' ability to predict future cash flows versus future earnings: Evidence on the trade-off between relevance and reliability
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 413 - 460 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Barth , D Cram , K Nelson
Accruals and the prediction of future cash flows
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
Crossref
F Bliemel
Theil's forecast accuracy coefficient: A clarification
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 10 , p. 444 - 446 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,094
RANK
233,304
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Ability of Earnings to Predict Future Operating Cash Flows Has Been Increasing - Not Decreasing

By Myungsun Kim and William Kross

The Usefulness of Accounting Estimates for Predicting Cash Flows and Earnings

By Siyi Li, Baruch Lev, ...

Accounting Estimates: Pervasive, Yet of Questionable Usefulness

By Baruch Lev, Siyi Li, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies