Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Risk, Accounting-Based Valuation and Firm Fundamentals

38 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2012

Matthew R. Lyle

Goizueta Business School

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Robert J. Elliott

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business; University of South Australia

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2011

Abstract

This study extends the accounting-based valuation framework of Ohlson (1995) and Feltham and Ohlson (1999) to incorporate dynamic expectations about the level of systematic risk in the economy. Our model explains recent empirical findings documenting a strong negative association between changes in economy-wide risk and future stock returns. Importantly, the model also generates costs of capital that are solely a linear function of accounting variables and other firm fundamentals including the book-to-market ratio, the earnings-to-price ratio, the forward earnings-to-price ratio, size and the dividend yield. This result provides a theoretical rationale for the inclusion of these popular variables in cost of capital (expected return) computations by the accounting and finance literatures and obviates the need to estimate costs of capital from unobservable (future) covariances. The model also generates an accounting return decomposition in the spirit of Vuolteenaho (2002). Empirically, we find that costs of capital generated by our model are significantly associated with future returns both in and out of sample in contrast to standard benchmark models. We further obtain significantly lower valuation errors in out-of-sample tests than traditional models that ignore dynamic risk expectations.

Keywords: Stock valuation, expected risk, cost of capital, expected returns, implied risk, Ohlson model

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lyle, Matthew R. and Callen, Jeffrey L. and Elliott, Robert James, Dynamic Risk, Accounting-Based Valuation and Firm Fundamentals (December 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2025959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2025959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Ang , R Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Ang , J Liu
A general a¢ ne earnings valuation model
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 397 - 425 Posted: 2001
T Bali , N Cakici , Y Tang
The conditional beta and the cross-section of expected returns
Financial Management , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 137 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Callen , D Segal
Do accruals drive …rm-level stock returns? a variance decomposition analysis
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 527 - 560 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,231
RANK
84,484
6 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Arbitrage Risk and Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Richard R. Mendenhall

Liquidity and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Tarun Chordia, Ronnie Sadka, ...

Liquidity and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Tarun Chordia, Amit Goyal, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies