Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Omitted Variables and Tests of Dividend Displacement

47 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2012

Elisabeth Dedman

Edge Hill University Business School

Thanamas Kungwal

Keele University - Keele Management School

Andrew W. Stark

Alliance Manchester Business School, University of Manchester

Date Written: March, 24 2012

Abstract

Theory suggests that, under certain assumptions, corporate distributions should reduce market value on a one-to-one basis. This result is sometimes known as dividend displacement. Nonetheless, dividend displacement tends to be rejected by empirical tests for total dividends and regular dividends, but not for share buybacks, in the UK. This is associated with regular dividends having a stronger relationship with future earnings than share buybacks (that is, more information content). We study a conjecture in the literature that the omission of lagged accounting variables in accounting-based market value models is the cause of the rejection of dividend displacement for regular or total dividends. Our results suggest that this is not so, although lagged accounting variables are value relevant. When various controls for omitted variables in models used in prior literature are employed, it is in only one case that the results of prior studies are overturned. This case is when lagged market value is added into the estimated equation. Theoretically, within a general study of controlling for omitted variables in accounting-based market valuation models, we argue that including lagged market value as an independent variable cannot control for the omission of lagged accounting variables, or other omitted variables, without producing additional model mis-specification problems which, in turn, introduces bias into statistical tests. Qualitative analysis of the various empirical results suggests that the results concerning dividend displacement when lagged market value is included in the model are induced by coefficient bias. As a consequence, we conclude that the results in previous literature are robust to the inclusion of lagged accounting variables, and the evidence against these results when lagged market value is included in the model is unreliable.

Keywords: Lagged accounting variables, accounting-based valuation models, dividend displacement

JEL Classification: G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dedman, Elisabeth and Kungwal, Thanamas and Stark, Andrew W., Omitted Variables and Tests of Dividend Displacement (March, 24 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2028444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2028444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Stefania Veltri
Mandatory Non-financial Risk-Related Disclosure
, p. 99 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,975
RANK
286,433
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies