Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Time-Series Versus Cross-Sectional Influences in Panel Estimates: International Financial Architecture and Expected Equity Premia

37 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2012

Raj Aggarwal

Kent State University Foundation; University of Akron; Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland; Kent State University

John W. Goodell

University of Akron - Department of Finance, College of Business Administration

Date Written: April 29, 2012

Abstract

In the study of economic and financial panel data it is often important to differentiate between time-series and cross-sectional effects. We present two estimation procedures that can do so and illustrate their application by examining international variations in expected equity premia and financial architecture where a number of variables vary across time but not cross-sectionally while other variables vary cross-sectionally but not across time. Using two different estimation procedures we find a preference for market financing to be negatively associated with the size of expected premia. However, we also find that U.S. corporate bond spreads negatively determine financial architecture according to the first procedure but not according to the second estimation as U.S. Corporate bond spreads change value each year but have the same value across countries. Similarly some measures that change across countries but do not change across time, such as cultural dimensions as well as the an index of measures against self dealing, are significant determinants of financial architecture according second estimation but not according to the first estimation. Our results show that using these two estimation procedures together can assess time-series versus cross-sectional variations in panel data. This research should be of considerable interest to empirical researchers.

Keywords: panel data estimates, time-series and cross-sectional effects, econometrics, financial institutions, banks, financial markets, comparative financial systems, legal traditions, uncertainty avoidance, trust, property rights

JEL Classification: G10, G20, N20, O16

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Raj and Aggarwal, Raj and Goodell, John W., Assessing Time-Series Versus Cross-Sectional Influences in Panel Estimates: International Financial Architecture and Expected Equity Premia (April 29, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2047724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2047724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R Aggarwal , J W Goodell
Markets and institutions in financial intermediation: National characteristics as determinants
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , p. 1770 - 1780 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Aggarwal , J W Goodell
International variations in expected equity premia: Role of financial architecture and governance
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 35 , p. 3090 - 3100 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Aggarwal , J W Goodell
Variations in emerging market equity premia: Impact of financial architecture
Journal of the Asia Pacific Economy , volume 16 , p. 313 - 330 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Aggarwal , S Zhao
The diversification discount puzzle: Empirical evidence for a transactions cost resolution
Financial Review , volume 44 , p. 113 - 135 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,699
RANK
469,965
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Dynamic Feedbacks on Ls and Mm Estimator Accuracy in Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Jan F. Kiviet

The Weak Instrument Problem of the System GMM Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Frank Windmeijer

The Weak Instrument Problem of the System GMM Estimator in Dynamic Panel Data Models

By Maurice J. G. Bun and Frank Windmeijer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies