Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Statistical Properties of the Maximum Drawdown in Financial Time Series

10 Pages Posted: 2 May 2012 Last revised: 15 May 2013

Alessandro Casati

Antares Technologies

Serge Tabachnik

Antares Technologies

Date Written: August 20, 2012

Abstract

The purpose of this work is to study the statistical properties of the MDD for stochastic processes characterized by the stylized facts of real financial time series. The numerical results obtained using a Monte Carlo code are firstly validated against the analytical predictions available within the academic framework of the Brownian motion. The statistics of the maximum drawdown is then analyzed in term of both its expectation value and distribution function for processes whose increments are not independent and present non vanishing excess kurtosis and skewness. The expectations for the maximum drawdown are finally compared, along with their confidence intervals, to the events observed in the historical financial time series of different asset classes.

Keywords: quantitative risk management, maximum drawdown, Monte Carlo, auto-regressive process

JEL Classification: C50, C53, C22, C15, C40

Suggested Citation:

Casati, Alessandro and Tabachnik, Serge, The Statistical Properties of the Maximum Drawdown in Financial Time Series (August 20, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2049584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2049584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
S Uryasev , A Chekhlov , M Zabarankin
International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance , volume 8 , p. 1 - 46 Posted: 2005
T Bollerslev
Journal of Econometrics , volume 31 , p. 307 - 327 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Jean- , Philippe Bouchaud , Marc Potters
Theory of Financial Risk and Derivative Pricing: From Statistical Physics to Risk Management Posted: 2003
Stuart Coles
An introduction to statistical modeling of extreme values Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,668
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,222
RANK
24,705
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies