Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Confidence Representation Theorem for Ambiguous Sources with Applications to Financial Markets and Trade Algorithm

Proceedings of Foundations and Applications of Utility, Risk and Decision Theory (FUR) XV. Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 1 May 2012 Last revised: 14 May 2012

G. Charles-Cadogan

University of Leicester

Date Written: May 4, 2012

Abstract

This paper extends the solution space for decision theory by introducing a behavioural operator that (1) transforms probability domains, and (2) generates sample paths for confidence from catalytic fuzzy or ambiguous sources. First, we prove that average sample paths for confidence/sentiment, generated from within and across source sets, differ. So conjugate priors should be used to mitigate the difference. Second, we identify loss aversion as the source of Langevin type friction that explains the popularity of Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes for modeling mean reversion of sample paths for behaviour. However, in large markets, ergodic confidence levels, imbued by Lichtenstein and Slovic (1973) and Yaari (1987) type preference reversal operations, support our large deviation theory of bubbles, crashes and chaos in behavioral dynamical systems. Third, simulation of the model confirms that the distribution of priors, on Gilboa and Schmeilder (1989) source sets, controls confidence momentum and term structure of fields of confidence. For example, it explains the asset pricing ''anomaly" of sensitivity of momentum trading strategies to starting dates in Moskowitz, Ooi, Pedersen (2012). Fourth, we provide several applications including but not limited to a sentiment based computer trading algorithm. For instance, our computer generated field of confidence mimics trends in CBOE VIX daily sentiment index, and survey driven Gallup Economic Confidence Index (GEDCI) sounding in Tversky and Wakker (1995) type impact events. We show how GDECI splits VIX into source sets that depict term structures of confidence for relative hope and fear. And identify a VIX source set arbitrage strategy by classifying each set according to its risk attitude, and then use the "confidence beta" of each set to explain differences in price moves.

Keywords: confidence, chaos, ambiguity, momentum, impact events, ergodic theory, large deviations

JEL Classification: C62, C65, D81, G00

Suggested Citation:

Charles-Cadogan, G., A Confidence Representation Theorem for Ambiguous Sources with Applications to Financial Markets and Trade Algorithm (May 4, 2012). Proceedings of Foundations and Applications of Utility, Risk and Decision Theory (FUR) XV. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2049425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2049425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
M Abdellaoui , A Baillon , L Placido , P P Wakker
The Rich Domain of Uncertainty: Source Functions and Their Experimental Implementation
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 2 , p. 695 - 723 Posted: 2011-04
Crossref
M Abdellaoui , H Bleichrodt , H Kammoun
Do financial professionals behave according to prospect theory? An experimental study
Theory and Decision , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2012-10
Crossref
P Artzner , F Delbaen , J.-M Eber , D Heath
Coherent Measures of Risk
Mathematical Finance , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 203 - 228 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Ash
Information Theory
XIX of Pure and Applied Mathematics Posted: 1965
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,972
RANK
154,352
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies