Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Qualitative Research Interview

Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, 8(3), 238-264, 2011

27 Pages Posted: 14 May 2012

Sandy Qu

York University - Schulich School of Business

John Dumay

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: May 14, 2011

Abstract

Purpose – Despite the growing pressure to encourage new ways of thinking about research methodology, only recently have interview methodologists begun to realize that “we cannot lift the results of interviewing out of the contexts in which they were gathered and claim them as objective data with no strings attached”. The purpose of this paper is to provide additional insight based on a critical reflection of the interview as a research method drawing upon Alvesson’s discussion from the neopositivist, romanticist and localist interview perspectives. Specifically, the authors focus on critical reflections of three broad categories of a continuum of interview methods: structured, semi-structured and unstructured interviews.

Design/methodology/approach – The authors adopt a critical and reflexive approach to understanding the literature on interviews to develop alternative insights about the use of interviews as a qualitative research method.

Findings – After examining the neopositivist (interview as a “tool”) and romanticist (interview as “human encounter”) perspectives on the use of the research interview, the authors adopt a localist perspective towards interviews and argue that the localist approach opens up alternative understanding of the interview process and the accounts produced provide additional insights. The insights are used to outline the skills researchers need to develop in applying the localist perspective to interviews.

Originality/value – The paper provides an alternative perspective on the practice of conducting interviews, recognizing interviews as complex social and organizational phenomena rather than just a research method.

Keywords: Research interview, Qualitative research, Interviewer, Interviewee, Research ethics, Research methods, Data handling, Social interaction

Suggested Citation:

Qu, Sandy Q. and Dumay, John, The Qualitative Research Interview (May 14, 2011). Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, 8(3), 238-264, 2011 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2058515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and organizations: realizing the richness of field research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
M Alvesson
Beyond neopositivisits, romantics and localists: a reflective approach to interviews in organizational research
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 33 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Alvesson , S Deetz
Doing Critical Management Research Posted: 2000
Crossref
H Arksey , P Knight
Interviewing for Social Scientists: An Introductory Resource with Examples Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,785
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,555
RANK
4,576
18 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies