Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating a Semiparametric Asymmetric Stochastic Volatility Model with a Dirichlet Process Mixture

FRB Atlanta Working Paper Series No. 2012-6

39 Pages Posted: 16 May 2012

Mark J. Jensen

Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta

John M. Maheu

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business; RCEA

Date Written: April 2012

Abstract

In this paper, we extend the parametric, asymmetric, stochastic volatility model (ASV), where returns are correlated with volatility, by flexibly modeling the bivariate distribution of the return and volatility innovations nonparametrically. Its novelty is in modeling the joint, conditional, return-volatility distribution with an infinite mixture of bivariate Normal distributions with mean zero vectors, but having unknown mixture weights and covariance matrices. This semiparametric ASV model nests stochastic volatility models whose innovations are distributed as either Normal or Student-t distributions, plus the response in volatility to unexpected return shocks is more general than the fixed asymmetric response with the ASV model. The unknown mixture parameters are modeled with a Dirichlet process prior. This prior ensures a parsimonious, finite, posterior mixture that best represents the distribution of the innovations and a straightforward sampler of the conditional posteriors. We develop a Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo sampler to fully characterize the parametric and distributional uncertainty. Nested model comparisons and out-of-sample predictions with the cumulative marginal-likelihoods, and one-day-ahead, predictive log-Bayes factors between the semiparametric and parametric versions of the ASV model shows the semiparametric model projecting more accurate empirical market returns. A major reason is how volatility responds to an unexpected market movement. When the market is tranquil, expected volatility reacts to a negative (positive) price shock by rising (initially declining, but then rising when the positive shock is large). However, when the market is volatile, the degree of asymmetry and the size of the response in expected volatility is muted. In other words, when times are good, no news is good news, but when times are bad, neither good nor bad news matters with regards to volatility.

Keywords: Bayesian nonparametrics, cumulative Bayes factor, Dirichlet process mixture, infinite mixture model, leverage effect, marginal likelihood, MCMC, non-normal, stochastic volatility, volatility-return relationship

JEL Classification: C11, C14, C53, C58

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Mark J. and Maheu, John M., Estimating a Semiparametric Asymmetric Stochastic Volatility Model with a Dirichlet Process Mixture (April 2012). FRB Atlanta Working Paper Series No. 2012-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2060671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2060671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,097
RANK
527,931
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Measuring and Testing the Impact of News on Volatility

By Robert F. Engle and Victor K. Ng

Caviar: Conditional Value at Risk by Quantile Regression

By Simone Manganelli and Robert F. Engle

Dynamic Conditional Correlation - a Simple Class of Multivariate GARCH Models

By Robert F. Engle

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies