Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mixture and Continuous 'Discontinuity' Hypotheses: An Earnings Management Model with Auditor-Required Adjustment

52 Pages Posted: 17 May 2012 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Andrew Yim

Bayes Business School, City, University of London

Date Written: March 20, 2024

Abstract

A parsimonious model is developed to understand two perplexing, salient features of the distributions of earnings, earnings change, and earnings surprise. The model provides guidance for empirical work to uncover the unmanaged earnings important to firm valuation and public scrutiny, yet unobserved by outside parties. Simulation results based on the model show that the puzzling volcano shape of the distributions can arise from the mixture of a spiky distribution of managed earnings with a bell-shaped distribution of unmanaged earnings. The spiky distribution is due to cookie-jar earnings management that compresses unmanaged earnings from both sides toward an earnings benchmark, leading to a concentration of density around there. The mixture is due to the auditor’s adjustment decision, which seems stochastic from the public’s or client firm’s perspective. Additional simulation results suggest that the widely documented discontinuity in the distributions can be partly due to a steep increase in density appearing like a discontinuity when a continuous distribution is plotted in terms of frequency counts in histogram bins. The main analytical results are a general characterization of the optimal earnings management strategy and the derivation of closed-form solutions for particular functional form assumptions. Potential applications include structurally estimating the model for policy analysis to assess the impact on earnings manipulation.

Keywords: Misreporting, Earnings Manipulation, Cookie-jar Accounting, Benchmark Reference, Auditor-client Interaction

JEL Classification: M43, M49, K42

Suggested Citation:

Yim, Andrew, Mixture and Continuous 'Discontinuity' Hypotheses: An Earnings Management Model with Auditor-Required Adjustment (March 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2061381 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2061381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
M L Abell , J P Braselton , J A Rafter
Statistics with Mathematica Posted: 1999
W R Baber , S.-H Kang , Y Li
Modeling Discretionary Accrual Reversal and the Balance Sheet as an Earnings Management Constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 4 , p. 1189 - 1212 Posted: 2011
K Bagshaw
Audit and Assurance Essentials: For Professional Accountancy Exams Posted: 2013
K P Balanda , H L Macgillivray
Kurtosis: A Critical Review
The American Statistician , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 119 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
RANK
398,904
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies