Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introducing GIVI: The S&P Global Intrinsic Value Index

38 Pages Posted: 22 May 2012

Priscilla Luk

S&P Dow Jones Indices

Xiaowei Kang

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Rotterdam School of Management (RSM)

Frank Luo

Standard & Poor's

Date Written: May 18, 2012

Abstract

Launched in March 2012, the S&P GIVI (Global Intrinsic Value Index) is a rules-based, global equity strategy index designed to capture two well- documented, persistent anomalies in the equity markets – namely, the low- volatility and value anomalies. The S&P GIVI tries to deliver – in a single index – both lower volatility and an alternative stock weighting scheme, whereby each stock is weighted by its intrinsic value, rather than its market capitalization.

Keywords: Low Volatility, Value Investing, Alternative Weighting, Index, Intrinsic Value

JEL Classification: G11

Suggested Citation:

Luk, Priscilla and Kang, Xiaowei and Luo, Frank, Introducing GIVI: The S&P Global Intrinsic Value Index (May 18, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2062468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2062468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
This graph may reflect hypothetical historical performance. Please see the Performance Disclosure at the end of this document for more information regarding the inherent limitations associated with back-tested performance
Source: S&P Indices, FTSE. Calculations based on monthly data from December 31 Posted: 1999-12-31
Charts are provided for illustrative purposes. This graph may reflect hypothetical historical performance. Please see the Performance Disclosure at the end of this document for more information regarding the inherent limitations associated with back-tested performance
Source: S&P Indices. Calculations based on monthly data from December 31 Posted: 1999-12-31
Exhibits A9a and A9b show the historical performance of the S&P GIVI Pan Asia Ex Japan, Australia and New Zealand versus the S&P Pan Asia Ex Japan, Australia and New Zealand BMI and MSCI AC Asia ex Information
Crossref
This graph may reflect hypothetical historical performance. Please see the Performance Disclosure at the end of this document for more information regarding the inherent limitations associated with back-tested performance. During the period spanning 2000 through 2011, the S&P GIVI Emerging Market Asia Pacific outperformed the S&P Emerging Market Asia Pacific BMI by 3.8% annually with a tracking error of 5
Source: S&P Indices, MSCI. Calculations based on monthly data from December 31 Posted: 1999-12-31
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,273
RANK
225,902
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies