Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Corporate Default: A BMA Approach

Banco de Espana Working Paper No. 1221

22 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2012

Carlos González-Aguado

Centre for Monetary and Financial Studies (CEMFI)

Enrique Moral-Benito

Banco de España; Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: June 13, 2012

Abstract

Model uncertainty hampers consensus on the main determinants of corporate default. We employ Bayesian model averaging (BMA) techniques in order to shed light on this issue. Empirical findings suggest that the most robust determinants of corporate default are firm-specific variables such as the ratio of working capital to total assets, the ratio of retained earnings to total assets, the ratio of total liabilities to total assets and the standard deviation of the firm’s stock return. In contrast, aggregate variables do not seem to play a relevant role once firm-specific characteristics (observable and unobservable) are taken into consideration.

Keywords: default probabilities, Bayesian model averaging, credit risk

JEL Classification: G33, C1

Suggested Citation:

González-Aguado, Carlos and Moral-Benito, Enrique, Determinants of Corporate Default: A BMA Approach (June 13, 2012). Banco de Espana Working Paper No. 1221, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2083499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2083499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Giacomo , Ernesto , Villanueva
Consumption and initial mortgage conditions: evidence from survey data
Pablo Hernández De Cos And Enrique Moral- Benito
Cesar A. Calderon , Enrique Moral-Benito , Luis Servén
Is Infrastructure Capital Productive? A Dynamic Heterogeneous Approach
Banco de Espana Working Paper No. 1103 Pages: 34 Posted: 5 Apr 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael Danquah , Enrique Moral-Benito , Bazoumana Ouattara
TFP Growth and its Determinants: Nonparametrics and Model Averaging
Banco de Espana Working Paper No. 1104 Pages: 34 Posted: 6 Apr 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,823
RANK
511,510
48 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Banco de Espana Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Default Risk in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou and Yuhang Xing

News Related to Future GDP Growth as a Risk Factor in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

News Related to Future GDP Growth as Risk Factors in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies