Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between Technical Efficiency and Stock Prices: Evidence from the US Airlines Industry (1990-2010)

29th International Conference of the French Finance Association (AFFI) 2012

Posted: 9 Oct 2012

Matthieu Mehdi Belarouci

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 15, 2012

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to analyse the relation of technical efficiency to stock market prices in the US airlines industry. Technical efficiency is an indicator, dedicated to productivity analysis, taking into account the industry structure. It enables the quantification of gains related to productive competitive advantage. Based on a sample of 28 carriers in the US airlines industry (1990-2010), we provide evidence of a statistical relation between technical efficiency and monthly stock prices. This relation is significant for the two months prior the official disclosure of the technical information. This result indicate that financial information is incrementally subsumed from technical reports. Lastly, based on nonparametric methodological framework, we propose competing modelizations of technical efficiency and we evaluate it in the light of their value relevance.

Keywords: Operating performance, productivity, market valuation, DEA, technical efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Belarouci, Matthieu Mehdi, The Relation between Technical Efficiency and Stock Prices: Evidence from the US Airlines Industry (1990-2010) (April 15, 2012). 29th International Conference of the French Finance Association (AFFI) 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2083651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2083651
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,239
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies