Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short Sellers and the Informativeness of Stock Prices with Respect to Future Earnings

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2012 Last revised: 8 Jan 2015

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

James N. Myers

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - College of Business Administration

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Michael D. Stuart

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Spears School of Business

Date Written: May 1, 2014

Abstract

In this paper, we examine whether short interest improves the informativeness of stock prices with respect to future earnings. We find that short selling strengthens the relation between current returns and future earnings, especially in settings where short sellers are likely to possess an information advantage, such as when a firm’s information environment is weak or when analysts are highly optimistic about future earnings growth. Collectively, our results illustrate the important role that short sellers play in improving the extent to which current stock prices reflect information about future earnings and thus, in improving market efficiency.

Keywords: Short sellers, short interest, future earnings response coefficient (FERC), market efficiency

JEL Classification: G17, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Michael S. and Myers, James N. and Myers, Linda A. and Stuart, Michael D., Short Sellers and the Informativeness of Stock Prices with Respect to Future Earnings (May 1, 2014). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2085019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2085019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
P Asquith , P A Pathak , J R Ritter
Short interest, institutional ownership, and stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B C Ayers , R N Freeman
Evidence that analyst following and institutional ownership accelerate the pricing of future earnings
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 8 , p. 47 - 67 Posted: 2003
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A Beber , B Pagano
Short selling bans around the world: Evidence from the 2007-09 crisis
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 343 - 381 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,663
RANK
143,013
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies