Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Callable and Putable Bonds: An Eigenfunction Expansion Approach

27 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2012

Dongjae Lim

Northwestern University - Department of Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences

Lingfei Li

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Department of Systems Engineering & Engineering Management

Vadim Linetsky

Northwestern University - Department of Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences

Date Written: June 1, 2012

Abstract

We propose an efficient method to evaluate callable and putable bonds under a wide class of interest rate models, including the popular short rate diffusion models, as well as their time changed versions with jumps. The method is based on the eigenfunction expansion of the pricing operator. Given the set of call and put dates, the callable and putable bond pricing function is the value function of a stochastic game with stopping times. Under some technical conditions, it is shown to have an eigenfunction expansion in eigenfunctions of the pricing operator with the expansion coefficients determined through a backward recursion. For popular short rate diffusion models, such as CIR, Vasicek, 3/2, the method is orders of magnitude faster than the alternative approaches in the literature. In contrast to the alternative approaches in the literature that have so far been limited to diffusions, the method is equally applicable to short rate jump-diffusion and pure jump models constructed from diffusion models by Bochner's subordination with a Levy subordinator.

Keywords: interest rate models, callable bonds, options embedded in bonds, optimal stopping, stochastic games, eigenfunction expansions, option pricing, stochastic time changes

JEL Classification: C63, G13

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Dongjae and Li, Lingfei and Linetsky, Vadim, Evaluating Callable and Putable Bonds: An Eigenfunction Expansion Approach (June 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2089131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2089131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
D.-H Ahn , B Gao
A parametric nonlinear model of term structure dynamics
Review of Financial Studies , volume 12 , p. 721 - 762 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Albanese , A Kuznetsov
Unifying the three volatility models
RISK , volume 17 , p. 94 - 98 Posted: 2004
S Albeverio , B Rüdiger
Infinite-dimensional stochastic differential equations obtained by subordination and related Dirichlet forms
Journal of Functional Analysis , volume 204 , p. 122 - 156 Posted: 2003
Crossref
O E Barndorff-Nielsen
Processes of normal inverse Gaussian type
Finance and Stochastics , volume 2 , p. 41 - 68 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
10 Citations
Robert S. Goldberg , Ehud I. Ronn , Liying Xu
Valuation of Callable/Putable Corporate Bonds in a One-Factor LogNormal Interest-Rate Model
Posted: 6 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 11 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rafael Mendoza-Arriaga , Vadim Linetsky
Time-Changed CIR Default Intensities with Two-Sided Mean-Reverting Jumps
The Annals of Applied Probability, 24(2), 811-856 · 31 Pages · Posted: 9 Sep 2012 · Last revised: 24 Jul 2014 · Downloads: 153
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lingfei Li , Vadim Linetsky
Optimal Stopping and Early Exercise: An Eigenfunction Expansion Approach
36 Pages · Posted: 7 Feb 2013 · Last revised: 22 Feb 2013 · Downloads: 183
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jing Li , Lingfei Li , Rafael Mendoza-Arriaga
Additive Subordination and Its Applications in Finance
36 Pages · Posted: 25 Jul 2014 · Last revised: 24 Jun 2015 · Downloads: 145
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,647
RANK
541,838
10 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Calibration and Implementation of Convertible Bond Models

By Leif B. G. Andersen and Dan Buffum

Time Changed Markov Processes in Unified Credit-Equity Modeling

By Peter Carr, Vadim Linetsky, ...

Pricing Convertible Bonds with Interest Rate, Equity, Credit, and FX Risk

By Ali Bora Yigitbasioglu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies