Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymptotics for Exponential Levy Processes and Their Volatility Smile: Survey and New Results

92 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2012

Leif B. G. Andersen

Bank of America

Alex Lipton

Hebrew University of Jerusalem; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

Date Written: June 28, 2012

Abstract

Exponential Lévy processes can be used to model the evolution of various financial variables such as FX rates, stock prices, etc. Considerable efforts have been devoted to pricing derivatives written on underliers governed by such processes, and the corresponding implied volatility surfaces have been analyzed in some detail. In the non-asymptotic regimes, option prices are described by the Lewis-Lipton formula which allows one to represent them as Fourier integrals; the prices can be trivially expressed in terms of their implied volatility. Recently, attempts at calculating the asymptotic limits of the implied volatility have yielded several expressions for the short-time, long-time, and wing asymptotics. In order to study the volatility surface in required detail, in this paper we use the FX conventions and describe the implied volatility as a function of the Black-Scholes delta. Surprisingly, this convention is closely related to the resolution of singularities frequently used in algebraic geometry. In this framework, we survey the literature, reformulate some known facts regarding the asymptotic behavior of the implied volatility, and present several new results. We emphasize the role of fractional differentiation in studying the tempered stable exponential Levy processes and derive novel numerical methods based on judicial finite-difference approximations for fractional derivatives. We also briefly demonstrate how to extend our results in order to study important cases of local and stochastic volatility models, whose close relation to the Lévy process based models is particularly clear when the Lewis-Lipton formula is used. Our main conclusion is that studying asymptotic properties of the implied volatility, while theoretically exciting, is not always practically useful because the domain of validity of many asymptotic expressions is small.

Keywords: option pricing, Levy processes, local volatility processes, small-time asymptotics, large-time asymptotics, wing asymptotics

JEL Classification: C60, C63, G10, G12, G13

Suggested Citation:

Andersen, Leif B.G. and Lipton, Alex, Asymptotics for Exponential Levy Processes and Their Volatility Smile: Survey and New Results (June 28, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2095654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2095654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
J M P Albin , M Bengtsson
On the Asymptotic Behavior of Levy processes. Part I: Subexponential and Exponential Processes, Working Paper Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Alos , J Leon , J Vives
On the short-time behavior of the implied volatility for jump-di¤usion models with stochastic volatility
Finance and Stochastics , volume 11 , p. 571 - 589 Posted: 2007
L Andersen
Option pricing with quadratic volatility: a revisit
Finance and Stochastic , volume 15 , p. 191 - 219 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Leif B.G. Andersen , Jesper Andreasen
Jump-Diffusion Processes: Volatility Smile Fitting and Numerical Methods for Pricing
Pages: 45 Posted: 11 Aug 1999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
10 Citations
Miglena N. Koleva , Lubin G. Vulkov
Numerical solution of time-fractional Black–Scholes equation
Computational and Applied Mathematics , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1699 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Daniel Alexandre Bloch
Machine Learning: Models And Algorithms
Machine Learning: Models And Algorithms, Quantitative Analytics, 2018 · 458 Pages · Posted: 7 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 13 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 10,280
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Antoine Jacquier , Lorenzo Torricelli
Anomalous Diffusions in Option Prices: Connecting Trade Duration and the Volatility Term Structure
33 Pages · Posted: 12 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 10 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 89
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel Alexandre Bloch
Option Pricing With Machine Learning
49 Pages · Posted: 25 Nov 2019 · Last revised: 5 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 1,463
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,110
RANK
151,887
10 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Convergence of Heston to SVI

By Jim Gatheral and Antoine (jack) Jacquier

Large Deviations for the Extended Heston Model: The Large-Time Case

By Antoine (jack) Jacquier and Aleksandar Mijatovic

Asymptotics of Forward Implied Volatility

By Antoine (jack) Jacquier and Patrick Roome

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies