Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Environment and Cost of Capital

36 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2012 Last revised: 24 Jul 2012

Orie E. Barron

Pennsylvania State University

Xuguang Simon Sheng

American University - Department of Economics

Maya Thevenot

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: July 23, 2012

Abstract

In empirical tests guided by recent theory (e.g., Hughes, Liu and Liu 2007; and Lambert, Leuz and Verrecchia 2011), we examine the joint effects of information precision, information asymmetry and the level of market competition on firms’ cost of equity capital. Consistent with theory, we find that average information precision and the level of market competition reduce the positive effect of information asymmetry but do not eliminate it. Besides examining various aspects of the environment jointly, our study is also unique in that we follow the suggestions of Sheng and Thevenot (2012) for modifying the Barron, Kim, Lim and Stevens (1998) measures of information asymmetry and precision. We find that cost of equity capital varies greatly with the modified measures of information asymmetry and average information precision. For example, our regression estimates suggest that information asymmetry and average information precision are more important than equity beta and firm size in determining firms’ cost of capital, and that such a substantial effect from information asymmetry and information precision is not apparent using unmodified BKLS measures.

Keywords: cost of capital, information quality, information asymmetry, ST uncertainty, BKLS

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G12, D82

Suggested Citation:

Barron, Orie E. and Sheng, Xuguang Simon and Thevenot, Maya, The Information Environment and Cost of Capital (July 23, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2099825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2099825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
B ; J Akins , R S Ng; , Verdi
Investor Competition over Information and the Pricing of Information Asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C S.; J E Armstrong , Core
Crossref
D J Taylor; , R E Verrecchia
When Does Information Asymmetry Affect the Cost of Capital?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2011
O E.; O Barron , C Kim; S , D E Lim; , Stevens
Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,334
RANK
193,883
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies