Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Reporting Conservatism Using the Dichev-Tang (2008) Model

2012 AAA Annual Meeting - Financial Accounting and Reporting Section Concurrent Session

56 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2012

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 4, 2012

Abstract

This paper provides a critical evaluation of an alternative measure of reporting conservatism introduced by Dichev and Tang (2008). Although there is substantial interest in research on accounting conservatism, there is no consensus among researchers on the most appropriate measure of conservatism in empirical studies. Dichev and Tang (2008) introduce a new measure of conservatism, which they believe to be a 'natural and practical measure of conservatism (p. 1441).' However, the econometric properties of this measure have not been fully evaluated, and previous studies have not provided evidence of this measure’s construct validity. Based on a parsimonious model of conservatism, I find that the Dichev and Tang (2008) measure is increasing in the conservatism parameter. However, although this measure produces well-specified test statistics that generate Type 1 errors according to researchers’ specifications, it generates tests of low power that lead to relatively high Type 2 errors. Next, I use actual data to provide evidence consistent with the construct validity of this measure. Finally, I suggest an alternative measure by using the reverse regression specification of the Dichev and Tang (2008) model. Results from simulations suggest that this alternative measure is feasible and is slightly superior to the Dichev and Tang (2008) measure in terms of test power.

Keywords: measure of accounting conservatism, construct validity tests

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Jimmy, Measuring Reporting Conservatism Using the Dichev-Tang (2008) Model (July 4, 2012). 2012 AAA Annual Meeting - Financial Accounting and Reporting Section Concurrent Session, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2100319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2100319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
W H Beaver , S G Ryan
Biases and lags in book value and their effects on the ability of the book-to-market ratio to predict book return on equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 148 Posted: 2000
Crossref
I D Dichev , V W Tang
Matching and the changing properties of accounting earnings over the last 40 years
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1425 - 1460 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J R Dietrich , K A Mueller , E J
Asymmetric timeliness tests of accounting conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 124 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,746
RANK
193,883
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies