Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Research Design Maze: Understanding Paradigms, Cases, Methods and Methodologies

Journal of Applied Management Accounting Research, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 69-80, 2012

12 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2012

Dina Wahyuni

Swinburne University of Technology

Date Written: June 26, 2012

Abstract

The present paper introduces the logical choices available in research methodologies; which enable the drawing of correct inferences to answer the various research questions that are asked by accounting researchers.

It starts with an overview of research paradigms as fundamental beliefs that affect the ways to conduct social research, including the choice of a particular research methodology. The paper then details the elements of case study design, including the justification to choose case organizations. The sections that follow present an overview of the required data and collection methods and discuss the methods used to analyze the collected data. Considerations regarding research quality are also presented.

This paper is a useful reference or a starting point for researchers considering qualitative multi-method case study research designs.

Keywords: research paradigms, interpretive accounting research (IAR), case study research, interview techniques, constant comparative method

Suggested Citation:

Wahyuni, Dina, The Research Design Maze: Understanding Paradigms, Cases, Methods and Methodologies (June 26, 2012). Journal of Applied Management Accounting Research, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 69-80, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2103082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
T Ahrens
Overcoming the subjective-objective divide in interpretive management accounting research , volume 33 , p. 292 - 297 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A J Berry , D T Otley
CaseBased Research in Accounting
The Real Life Guide to Accounting Research: A Behind-The-Scenes View of Using Qualitative Research Methods Posted: 2004
Crossref
M A Bloor , F A Wood
Keywords in Qualitative Methods: A Vocabulary of Research Concepts Posted: 2006
H Boeije
A purposeful approach to the constant comparative method in the analysis of qualitative interviews
Quality and Quantity , volume 36 , p. 391 - 409 Posted: 2002
Load more
3 Citations
Kyra Law , Norizan Jaafar
Creation of Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) Among Young Entrepreneurs in Sarawak: A Qualitative Perspective
8 Pages · Posted: 30 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 221
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohammed Siddique Kadwa , Hamza Alshenqeeti
The Impact of Students’ Proficiency in English on Science Courses in a Foundation Year Program
International Journal of Linguistics, Literature and Translation · 13 Pages · Posted: 9 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 417
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fasilat Aramide Sanusi , Satirenjit Johl
The Mediating Impact of Work Life Balance on the Relationship between Internal Corporate Social Responsibility Practice and Sustainable Job Continuity: Perspectives from Followership Theory
HELIYON-D-23-24118 · 31 Pages · Posted: 28 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 63
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22,284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
54,870
RANK
312
3 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies