Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing Univariate and Multivariate Models to Forecast Portfolio Value-at-Risk

Journal of Financial Econometrics, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2012 Last revised: 18 Aug 2013

Andre A. P. Santos

CUNEF Universidad

Francisco J. Nogales

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid - Department of Statistics; Institute of Financial Big Data UC3M-BS

Esther Ruiz

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Statistics and Econometrics

Date Written: July 6, 2012

Abstract

This paper compares multivariate and univariate GARCH models to forecast portfolio value-at-risk (VaR). We provide a comprehensive look at the problem by considering realistic models and diversified portfolios containing a large number of assets, using both simulated and real data. Moreover, we rank the models by implementing statistical tests of comparative predictive ability. We conclude that multivariate models outperform their univariate counterparts on an out-of-sample basis. In particular, among the models considered in this paper, the dynamic conditional correlation model with Student-t errors seems to be the most appropriate specification when implemented to estimate the VaR of the real portfolios analyzed.

Keywords: Backtesting, Basel Accords, market risk, composite likelihood, risk management, volatility

JEL Classification: C22, C53, G17

Suggested Citation:

A. P. Santos, Andre and Nogales, Francisco J. and Ruiz, Esther, Comparing Univariate and Multivariate Models to Forecast Portfolio Value-at-Risk (July 6, 2012). Journal of Financial Econometrics, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2110297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
C Alexander
Orthogonal GARCH. Mastering Risk , volume 2 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 2001
C Alexander , A Chibumba
Multivariate orthogonal factor GARCH Posted: 1997
M Asai , M Mcaleer , J Yu
Multivariate stochastic volatility: a review
Econometric Reviews , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 175 Posted: 2006
Crossref
G Barone-Adesi , F Bourgoin , K Giannopoulos
Don't look back
Risk , volume 11 , issue 8 , p. 100 - 103 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,419
RANK
184,062
3 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Measuring and Testing the Impact of News on Volatility

By Robert F. Engle and Victor K. Ng

Caviar: Conditional Value at Risk by Quantile Regression

By Simone Manganelli and Robert F. Engle

Dynamic Conditional Correlation - a Simple Class of Multivariate GARCH Models

By Robert F. Engle

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies