Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Innovation and the Ratchet Effect Among Consumer Packaged Goods Firms

Marketing Science, Forthcoming

Posted: 24 Jul 2012

Christine Moorman

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Simone Wies

Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

Natalie Mizik

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill; University of Washington

Fredrika Spencer

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Wilmington

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 23, 2012

Abstract

We consider how public firms influence their stock market valuations by timing the introduction of innovative new products. Our focus is on innovation ratchet strategy — firms timing the introduction of innovations in order to demonstrate an improvement in the number of introductions over time. We document that public firms use an innovation ratchet strategy more often than private firms and that the stock market rewards public firms for doing so. These rewards from the stock market, however, come at the expense of performance in product markets. Specifically, because firms using an innovation ratchet strategy delay some product introductions, they have significantly lower sales growth in the year they ratchet. Finally, we identify firm and market characteristics that influence the likelihood a public firm will engage in an innovation ratchet strategy.

Keywords: Innovation, timing, stock market, ratchet, revenue, calendar time portfolios

JEL Classification: C50, D80, G10, L66, M31, G3, L15, D22, L29

Suggested Citation:

Moorman, Christine and Wies, Simone and Mizik, Natalie and Mizik, Natalie and Spencer, Fredrika, Firm Innovation and the Ratchet Effect Among Consumer Packaged Goods Firms (July 23, 2012). Marketing Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2115524
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,856
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Review of Marketing Science (ROMs)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies