Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transitory Earnings Components and the Two Faces of Non-GAAP Earnings

Published in Accounting and Finance, 2015, Vol. 55

42 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2012 Last revised: 21 Jan 2016

Young-Soo Choi

Sungkyunkwan University

Steven Young

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

Non-GAAP earnings reporting has been linked with both informative and strategic incentives. We seek to disentangle these conflicting effects by examining the association between non-GAAP earnings disclosure and transitory items in GAAP earnings, conditional on managers’ reporting incentives. We report evidence of a statistically and economically significant asymmetric relation between disclosure propensity and transitory items in GAAP earnings conditional on both the sign and magnitude of the GAAP earnings surprise. Our findings suggest that non-GAAP earnings disclosures tend to be driven by a desire informative (strategic) reporting when GAAP earnings beat (undershoot) market expectations.

Keywords: Non-GAAP (Pro forma) earnings, Transitory items, FRS 3, Earnings thresholds

JEL Classification: M41, C25

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Young-Soo and Young, Steven, Transitory Earnings Components and the Two Faces of Non-GAAP Earnings (July 1, 2013). Published in Accounting and Finance, 2015, Vol. 55, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2115466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2115466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Reporting Financial Performance Posted: 1992
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Barth , I Gow , D Taylor
Why do pro forma and Street earnings not reflect changes in GAAP? Evidence from SFAS 123R
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , p. 526 - 562 Posted: 2012
Crossref
V Beattie , S Brown , D Ewers , B John , S Manson , D Thomas , M Turner
Extraordinary items and income smoothing: A Positive accounting approach
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 21 , p. 791 - 811 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,833
RANK
224,339
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Gaap Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings

By Mark T Bradshaw, Matthew Moberg, ...

The Predictive Value of Expenses Excluded from 'Pro Forma' Earnings

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Russell J. Lundholm, ...

Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings

By Neil Bhattacharya, Ervin L. Black, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies