Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nearly Exact Option Price Simulation Using Characteristic Functions

International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2012

Carole Bernard

Grenoble Ecole de Management; Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB)

Zhenyu Cui

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Don McLeish

University of Waterloo

Date Written: June 22, 2012

Abstract

This paper presents a new approach to perform a nearly unbiased simulation using inversion of the characteristic function. As an application we are able to give unbiased estimates of the price of forward starting options in the Heston model and of continuously monitored Parisian options in the Black-Scholes framework. This method of simulation can be applied to problems for which the characteristic functions are easily evaluated but the corresponding probability density functions are complicated.

Keywords: Characteristic function, Monte Carlo, Option pricing, Parisian option, Heston model

JEL Classification: C15, G12, G13

Suggested Citation:

Bernard, Carole and Cui, Zhenyu and McLeish, Don, Nearly Exact Option Price Simulation Using Characteristic Functions (June 22, 2012). International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2115875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2115875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
J Abate , W Whitt
Numerical inversion of Laplace transforms of probability distributions
ORSA Journal of Computing , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 43 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Ahlip , M Rutkowski
Forward Start Options under Stochastic Volatility and Stochastic Interest Rates
International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 225 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Albrecher , D Kortschak , X Zhou
Pricing of Parisian options for a jump-diffusion model with two-sided jumps
Applied Mathematical Finance , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 97 - 129 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L Alili , P Patie , J L Pedersen
Representations of the First Hitting Time Density of an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck Process, Stochastic Models , volume 21 , p. 967 - 980 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,633
RANK
218,958
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Low-Bias Simulation Scheme for the Heston Model by Inverse Gaussian Approximation

By Shu Tong Tse and Justin W. L. Wan

Generic Pricing of FX, Inflation and Stock Options Under Stochastic Interest Rates and Stochastic Volatility

By Alexander Van Haastrecht and Antoon Pelsser

Accounting for Stochastic Interest Rates, Stochastic Volatility and a General Dependency Structure in the Valuation of Forward Starting Options

By Alexander Van Haastrecht and Antoon Pelsser

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies