Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy Prediction in South Africa

ORSSA Proceedings ISBN 978-0-7972-1351-7 2012

10 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2012

Abel Maeteletsa

University of South Africa (UNISA) - Graduate School of Business Leadership (SBL)

Jan Walters Kruger

University of South Africa (UNISA) - Graduate School of Business Leadership (SBL)

Date Written: September 18, 2011

Abstract

Bankruptcy prediction modeling and studies are known to have existed since the 1960s. In this report a brief overview is given of the theory with reference to Altman's use of Multivariate Discrimination in the formulation of his Z-score model. This study looks at the impact of time in the classification or prediction accuracy. Two sets of 71 failed and non-failed companies listed in the Johannesburg Stock Exchange were used. The companies come from various sectors and range from the period of 1998 to 2007 excluding 2006. The data were subdivided into three parts according to periods and models were formulated and tested with five multivariate discriminate analysis functions and one classification tree algorithm. The results show that there is no impact in the classification or prediction accuracy due to the specific time period the model was used. It was further verified that the classification accuracy is independent of whether the model was chronologically closer or further than the test sample. The third test verified that the classification accuracy is independent of whether the time period is relatively narrow or wider. The overall result implies that the time period the model was created has no effect in the classification or prediction accuracy. This view is best when limited to a specific business cycle.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Financial Distress, Bankruptcy Prediction, Bankruptcy Modeling

JEL Classification: C53, C44, G33

Suggested Citation:

Maeteletsa, Abel and Kruger, Jan Walters, Bankruptcy Prediction in South Africa (September 18, 2011). ORSSA Proceedings ISBN 978-0-7972-1351-7 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2118415
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,230
RANK
359,199
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies