Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Takeovers on the Fundamental Value of Acquirers

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 40 (4), pp. 333-352, 2010

40 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2012

Paul M. Guest

Kings Business School; University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research (CBR)

Magnus Bild

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mikael Runsten

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

This paper develops a new methodology to examine the financial impact of acquisitions, designed to address whether takeovers yield a positive net present value for the acquiring company. Specifically, we employ the residual income valuation method to compare the fundamental value of the acquiring company before acquisition with the fundamental value after acquisition. We apply this methodology to 303 UK acquisitions completed during 1985-96, and compare the results with the effects of takeover on profitability and short and long run share returns. We find that the impact of acquisition on fundamental value is slightly negative but statistically insignificant. This result differs from the effect of takeover on profitability, which is significantly positive, and the effect of takeover on share returns, which is significantly negative.

Keywords: acquisitions, fundamental value, residual income, profitability, share returns

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Guest, Paul M. and Bild, Magnus and Runsten, Mikael, The Effect of Takeovers on the Fundamental Value of Acquirers (2010). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 40 (4), pp. 333-352, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2118248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
W W Alberts , N P Varaiya
Assessing the Profitability of Growth by Acquisition: A 'Premium Recapture' Approach'
International Journal of Industrial Organisation , volume 7 , p. 133 - 149 Posted: 1989
G Andrade , E Stafford
Investigating the Economic Role of Mergers'
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 10 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J S Ang , Y Cheng
Direct Evidence on the Market-Driven Acquisitions Theory'
Journal of Financial Research , volume 29 , p. 199 - 216 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Barber , D Lyon
Detecting Abnormal Operating Performance: The Empirical Power and Specification of Test Statistics'
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 41 , p. 359 - 399 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
533
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,264
RANK
119,984
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Market for Corporate Control: The Scientific Evidence

By Richard S. Ruback and Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers

By Gregor Andrade, Mark L. Mitchell, ...

Do Managerial Objectives Drive Bad Acquisitions?

By Randall Morck, Andrei Shleifer, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies