Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Points to Consider When Self-Assessing Your Empirical Accounting Research

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 32, No. 3, Fall 2015, pp. 1162-1192

53 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2012 Last revised: 12 Jan 2016

John Evans

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Mei Feng

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Vicky B. Hoffman

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Donald V. Moser

University of Pittsburgh - Accounting Group

Wim A. Van der Stede

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: May 22, 2014

Abstract

We provide a list of Points to Consider (PTCs) to help researchers self-assess whether they have addressed certain common issues that arise frequently in accounting research seminars and in reviewers’ and editors’ comments on papers submitted to journals. Anticipating and addressing such issues can help accounting researchers, especially doctoral students and junior faculty members, convert an initial empirical accounting research idea into a thoughtful and carefully designed study. Doing this also allows outside readers to provide more beneficial feedback rather than commenting on the common issues that could have been dealt with in advance. The list, provided in the Appendix, consists of five sections: Research Question; Theory; Contribution; Research Design and Analysis; and Interpretation of Results and Conclusions. In each section, we include critical items that readers, journal referees, and seminar participants are likely to raise and offer suggestions for how to address them. The text elaborates on some of the more challenging items, such as how to increase a study’s contribution, and provides examples of how such issues have been effectively addressed in previous accounting studies.

Keywords: self-assessment, archrival, experimental

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Evans, John Harry and Feng, Mei and Hoffman, Vicky B. and Moser, Donald V. and Van der Stede, Wim A., Points to Consider When Self-Assessing Your Empirical Accounting Research (May 22, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 32, No. 3, Fall 2015, pp. 1162-1192, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2120181 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2120181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
The role of performance measures in the intertemporal decisions of business unit managers
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 925 - 961 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Abernethy , M Horne , A Lillis , M Malina , F Selto
A multi-method approach to building causal performance maps from expert knowledge
Management Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 55 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S W Anderson , A M Lillis
Corporate frugality: Theory, measurement and practice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 1349 - 1387 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,454
RANK
28,004
4 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies