Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bayesian Semiparametric Multivariate GARCH Modeling

FRB Atlanta Working Paper Series No. 2012-9

37 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2012

Mark J. Jensen

Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta

John M. Maheu

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business; RCEA

Date Written: July 2012

Abstract

This paper proposes a Bayesian nonparametric modeling approach for the return distribution in multivariate GARCH models. In contrast to the parametric literature, the return distribution can display general forms of asymmetry and thick tails. An infinite mixture of multivariate normals is given a flexible Dirichlet process prior. The GARCH functional form enters into each of the components of this mixture. We discuss conjugate methods that allow for scale mixtures and nonconjugate methods, which provide mixing over both the location and scale of the normal components. MCMC methods are introduced for posterior simulation and computation of the predictive density. Bayes factors and density forecasts with comparisons to GARCH models with Student-t innovations demonstrate the gains from our flexible modeling approach.

Keywords: Bayesian nonparametrics, cumulative Bayes factor, Dirichlet process mixture, forecasting, infinite mixture model, MCMC, slice sampler

JEL Classification: C11, C14, C53, C58

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Mark J. and Maheu, John M., Bayesian Semiparametric Multivariate GARCH Modeling (July 2012). FRB Atlanta Working Paper Series No. 2012-9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2126435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2126435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
C Ausín , P Galeano , P Ghosh
A semiparametric bayesian approach to the analysis of financial time series with applications to value at risk estimation, Statistics and econometrics working papers Posted: 2010
Crossref
T G Bali , R F Engle
The intertemporal capital asset pricing model with dynamic conditional correlation
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 57 , p. 337 - 390 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L Bauwens , C Hafner , J Rombouts
Multivariate mixed normal conditional heteroskedasticity
Computational Statistics & Data Analysis , volume 51 , issue 7 , p. 3551 - 3566 Posted: 2007
Crossref
L Bauwens , S Laurent
A new class of multivariate skew densities, with application to generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity models
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 346 - 354 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,711
RANK
502,079
5 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Measuring and Testing the Impact of News on Volatility

By Robert F. Engle and Victor K. Ng

Caviar: Conditional Value at Risk by Quantile Regression

By Simone Manganelli and Robert F. Engle

Dynamic Conditional Correlation - a Simple Class of Multivariate GARCH Models

By Robert F. Engle

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies