Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of Analysts’ Consensus Forecast Error for Measurement of Market Expectation and Predictability of Stock Returns

53 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2012 Last revised: 13 Aug 2012

Jung Hoon Kim

San Francisco State University - College of Business

Date Written: August 10, 2012

Abstract

In recent studies, the analysts’ consensus forecasts are widely used as a proxy for the unobservable market’s consensus expectation of future earnings. As prior studies indicate, the analysts’ consensus forecasts measure the true underlying construct with errors and the errors may vary cross-sectionally. Based on these prior findings, this study examines the implications of the cross-sectional variation of the errors in measuring the market expectation of future earnings for the predictability of future stock returns. For this end, this study first uniquely provides a framework to estimate the cross-sectional variation of the errors in measuring the market expectation of future earnings embedded in the analysts’ consensus forecasts based on the absolute analysts’ consensus forecast errors and determinants. The findings of this study indicate that incorporating information about the cross-sectional variation of the errors can generate better specified empirical test models and improved predictions of future stock returns based on the forward E/P constructed with the mean analysts’ consensus forecasts. The results of this study also have the implications for practitioners (i.e., money managers). This study reports that the spread of the hedge returns from the forward E/P investment strategy is the largest when the errors are estimated to be the smallest. To conclude, the implications of the findings in this study for other accounting research areas are discussed. 

Keywords: Analysts' consensus forecast error, Market expectation of future earnings, Predictability of stock returns

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jung Hoon, Implications of Analysts’ Consensus Forecast Error for Measurement of Market Expectation and Predictability of Stock Returns (August 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2127657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2127657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
The Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S Abarbanell , W Lanen , R Verrecchia
Analysts' forecasts as proxies for investor beliefs in empirical research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ali , A Klein , J Rosenfeld
Analysts' use of information about permanent and transitory earnings components in forecasting annual EPS
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,834
RANK
289,981
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies