Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Neuroscience Behind the Stock Market's Reaction to Corporate Earnings News

36 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2012

Jan Barton

Emory University

Gregory Berns

Emory University

Andrew Brooks

Emory University

Date Written: August 13, 2012

Abstract

Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we capture neural activity in the ventral striatum — a key area in the human brain’s reward processing circuit — of 35 adult investors learning the earnings per share disclosed by 60 publicly traded companies. Before imaging, investors forecasted each company’s earnings and took either a long or a short position in its stock. We find that striatal activation in investors’ brains explains just as much or more of the variation in risk-adjusted stock returns and abnormal share trading around earnings announcements than the dollar or percentage magnitude of the earnings surprise itself. We also find that, in aggregating investors’ individual reactions, the market seems to weigh more heavily the reactions of investors with greater brain activation, even after controlling for their financial expertise, forecasting ability, investment positions, and overall sensitivity to rewards and punishment.

Keywords: financial accounting, earnings surprise, market reaction, human brain, neuroeconomics, neuroaccounting, fMRI

JEL Classification: M4, G1

Suggested Citation:

Barton, Jan and Berns, Gregory and Brooks, Andrew, The Neuroscience Behind the Stock Market's Reaction to Corporate Earnings News (August 13, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2129422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2129422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
M B Clement , L Koonce , T J Lopez
The roles of task-specific forecasting experience and innate ability in understanding analyst forecasting performance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 378 - 398 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P J Corr
Reinforcement sensitivity theory and personality
Neuroscience and Behavioral Reviews , volume 28 , p. 317 - 332 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Das
Financial analysts' earnings forecasts for loss firms
Managerial Finance , volume 24 , p. 39 - 50 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J De Long , A Shleifer , L Summers , R Waldman
Noise traders risk in financial markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 98 , p. 703 - 738 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
14 Citations
Kevin Moffitt , Vernon J. Richardson , Neal M Snow , Martin Weisner , David A. Wood
Perspectives on Past and Future AIS Research as the Journal of Information Systems Turns Thirty
36 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 6 May 2016 · Downloads: 338
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sudipta Basu , Gregory B. Waymire
The Evolution of Double-Entry Bookkeeping
This is a revision to an earlier paper. · 31 Pages · Posted: 2 Jan 2018 · Last revised: 6 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 925
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Matthias Sohn , Bernhard Hirsch , Michael Schulte-Mecklenbeck
Information search, attention distribution and biased performance evaluations: Evidence from students and executive managers
52 Pages · Posted: 10 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 21 May 2020 · Downloads: 141
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rachel Martin
Examination and Implications of Experimental Research on Investor Perceptions
91 Pages · Posted: 17 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 165
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
642
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,713
RANK
94,625
14 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies