Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Model Uncertainty and Robustness Tests: Towards a New Logic of Statistical Inference

37 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2012

Thomas Pluemper

University of Essex - Department of Government; Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Socioeconomics

Eric Neumayer

London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: August 14, 2012

Abstract

We augment the increasingly common practice of typically ad hoc robustness tests into a research methodology that allows reliable inferences when researchers do not know the true data-generating process. We identify three principal sources of model uncertainty. First, theories simplify and aim at isolating causal mechanisms under ceteris paribus conditions. Theories thus cannot sufficiently specify the data-generating process. Second, empirical researchers are uncertain about what constitutes the population – the set of cases for which a theory claims validity – from which to draw a representative sample as required for econometric estimation. Finally, model uncertainty also results from the fact that many concepts used in social science theories cannot be observed and therefore can only be measured by proxy variables, which deviate in unknown, but potentially systematic ways from the theoretical concepts. These three causes of model uncertainty result in at least 16 specific aspects of uncertainty about model specification that can be subjected to various robustness tests. Defining robustness as stability of causal inferences, we argue against the misplaced focus on single point estimates from any specific test. Instead, we suggest scholars employ model averaging techniques to assess robustness in terms of the entire set of empirical evidence from the baseline and all robustness test models. This method avoids the type-II error bias of current practice and encourages researchers to undertake a larger set of robustness tests instead of carefully hand-selecting only those tests that do not deviate from their baseline model results. We illustrate our proposal using an example of an existing study by the authors on the political determinants of famine mortality, which contained only two robustness tests and thus begs the question whether the causal inferences are fragile. Subjecting our baseline model to a battery of additional tests, we conclude that our causal inferences are in fact robust: democracies respond more elastically than autocracies to the simultaneous presence of international food aid and a large share of the population being affected, which results in lower famine mortality.

Keywords: model uncertainty, misspecification, robustness, inferences, model averaging

Suggested Citation:

Plümper, Thomas and Plümper, Thomas and Neumayer, Eric, Model Uncertainty and Robustness Tests: Towards a New Logic of Statistical Inference (August 14, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2129113 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2129113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Hirotugu Akaike
A new look at the statistical model identification
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 1974
Crossref
Akaike , ; M Hirotugu , Bernardo
Likelihood and the Bayes procedure
Bayesian Statistics , p. 143 - 166 Posted: 1980
Crossref
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
J J Beggs
Diagnostic Testing in Applied Econometrics
Economic Record , volume 64 , p. 81 - 101 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,038
RANK
178,157
5 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Natural Resource Abundance and Economic Growth

By Jeffrey D. Sachs and Andrew M. Warner

International Comparisons of Educational Attainment

By Robert J. Barro and Jong-wha Lee

I Just Ran Four Million Regressions

By Xavier Sala-i-martin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies