Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multiplicative Regression Models of the Relationship between Accounting Numbers and Market Value

Posted: 16 Aug 2012 Last revised: 25 Feb 2013

Michael Falta

University of Otago

Roger J. Willett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The validity of ordinary least squares (OLS) estimates of relationships between accounting numbers and market value made in capital market research (CMR) using linear, additive models is questioned. Multiplicative models are argued to be more consistent with underlying economic theory for long-lived firms. Annual cross-section and firm-specific dynamic regression models of market on accounting values are estimated in levels and returns, using a selected panel of 30 of some of the largest long-lived USA firms over a 50 year period. Multiplicative models of levels data produce markedly improved statistical specifications compared to additive forms. Lags are also shown to be necessary to produce well-specified models of the relationship between accounting numbers and market value. Deflated returns models based on additive models are shown to suffer from additional problems of statistical inference. The consequences of using mis-specified additive models of the relationship between accounting numbers and market value, when data generating processes (DGPs) incorporate multiplicative relationships, are illustrated using analysis and computational experiments. Attention is drawn to the importance of the assumption of homogeneous firm parameters in cross-section estimation.

Keywords: regression analysis, capital markets research, fundamentals, misspecification, multiplicative functional form, log-linear models

Suggested Citation:

Falta, Michael and Willett, Roger J., Multiplicative Regression Models of the Relationship between Accounting Numbers and Market Value (2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2130328
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,320
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Truth and Robustness in Cross-Country Growth Regressions

By Kevin D. Hoover and Stephen J. Perez

The Properties of Automatic Gets Modelling

By David F. Hendry and Martin Krolzig

Selecting a Regression Saturated by Indicators

By Soren Johansen, David F. Hendry, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies