Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Neglecting the Slope Parameters Heterogeneity on Dynamic Models of Corporate Capital Structure

Quantitative Finance, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2012

Maria Elena Bontempi

University of Bologna - Department of Economics

Roberto Golinelli

University of Bologna - Department of Economics

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

We present a parsimonious representation of debt-ratio dynamics which is able to nest the Trade-Off, Pecking-Order and Market-Timing theoretical models, at the same time avoiding the poolability of the slope parameters. The inference on firm heterogeneous speed of adjustment of effective towards target debt-ratio is based on a comparison of the unit root results from both individual-company and (this is a relative novelty in the case of micro-data) panel data. Results show that company behaviour is largely heterogeneous with regard to the theory underlying the historical data. Our proposed methodology may be usefully employed in order to identify sub-samples of companies behaving in an homogeneous manner, and can be extended to study the empirical capital structure models with more appropriate quantitative instruments. This would avoid the arbitrary a priori selections of sub-samples and the imposition of untested poolability assumptions as the empirical literature usually does.

Keywords: Dynamic models of corporate capital structure, Heterogeneity, Time series and panel data unit root tests, Nested models, Trade off, pecking order and market timing theories

JEL Classification: C12, G32, C22, C23

Suggested Citation:

Bontempi, Maria Elena and Golinelli, Roberto, The Effect of Neglecting the Slope Parameters Heterogeneity on Dynamic Models of Corporate Capital Structure (2011). Quantitative Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2131576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
A Alti
How persistent is the impact of market timing on capital structure?
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1681 - 1710 Posted: 2006
Crossref
T W Anderson , C Hsiao
Formulation and estimation of dynamic models using panel data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 18 , p. 47 - 82 Posted: 1982
Crossref
D W K Andrews
Heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix estimation
Econometrica , volume 59 , p. 817 - 858 Posted: 1991
Crossref
A Antoniou , Y Guney , C Paudyal
The determinants of capital structure: capital market oriented versus bank oriented institutions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 43 , p. 59 - 92 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,245
RANK
635,835
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies