Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Algorithm for the Detection of Revenue and Retained Earnings Manipulation

Accounting & Taxation, v. 4 (2) p. 95-105, 2012

11 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2014

Igor Pustylnick

Far Eastern Federal University; Conestoga College

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This paper presents a statistical analysis confirming the former empirical findings that positive differences between the growth rates of P-Score and Z-score appears in financial statement data of companies involved in major financial fraud. The paper examines firms that engaged in fraud in the late 1990’s through early 2000’s. The paper reports the results of regression analysis, using ratios, from financial statement data used in the calculations of P-Score and Z-Score. The results show that positive values of the difference between the growth rates of P-Score and Z-Score correlate with Net Income, Revenue, Retained Earnings and Total Equity ratios. Both ratios represent the financial statement areas where most identified fraud occurred. The findings imply that positive differences between the rates of growth suggest financial statement manipulation. The standard error of the estimate shows the early linear regression to be coarse. The final part of the paper optimizes the linear regression formula and discusses its limits. The paper shows the potential uses of Extensible Business Reporting Language (XLRB) for getting the necessary values for algorithm calculations.

Keywords: financial statements, fraud, manipulation, Z-Score, P-Score, revenue, retained earnings, XBRL

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pustylnick, Igor, An Algorithm for the Detection of Revenue and Retained Earnings Manipulation (2012). Accounting & Taxation, v. 4 (2) p. 95-105, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2144921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Brystol Myers Squibb
X This table shows the list of the major cases of fraud, discovered and investigated in the late 1990s -early 2000s. Each company in this list carries financial statement fraud charges. The second column shows the year when the auditors discovered the fraud. The third column shows the year when the first year in the selected five when the indicator of manipulation (ΔP-ΔZ) was positive REFERENCES ACFE
Computer Associates Posted: 2001
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law and Economics Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance Posted: 1968
Crossref
M Beneish
The Detection of Earnings Manipulation
Working Paper Series Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,902
RANK
176,084
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies