Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Binary Model Versus Discriminant Analysis to Corporate Bankruptcies for Emerging Market

20 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2012

Elena Makeeva

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Ekaterina Neretina

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Nikita Pirogov

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 10, 2012

Abstract

The problem of the firm bankruptcy prediction was investigated by foreign researchers in the 1930s and it still remains relevant. Since publishing of the major Altman’s work (1968), based on multiple discriminant analysis, this methodological area has been considerably changed. Taking into consideration that new data have appeared in the course of time, companies’ average size has changed and the accounting standards have been changed (Altman (1977)) methods and models should be renewed to be appropriate for the present day situation.

The purpose of this investigation is the revealing of factors causing bankruptcy and using models appropriate for prediction bankruptcy in the area of a construction industry during financial crisis.

This investigation has been carried out on the basis of logit and probit analysis. The main reasons of bankruptcy revealed in the course of this investigation are the following:

•non-optimal capital structure formation •ineffective liquidity management •decrease in assets profitability •decrease in short-term assets turnover

The most reliable indicators, which give warning of bankruptcy ahead of others are financial instability and liquidity ratios.

Keywords: bankruptcy prediction, construction industry, logit and probit analysis

JEL Classification: G12, G13, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Makeeva, Elena and Neretina, Ekaterina and Pirogov, Nikita, A Binary Model Versus Discriminant Analysis to Corporate Bankruptcies for Emerging Market (September 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2144310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2144310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Abidali Adnan , F , . H
A methodology for predicting company failure in the construction industry
Construction Management and Economics , volume 13 , p. 189 - 196 Posted: 1995
W Agarwal , T R
Posted: 2008
Crossref
Comparing the performance of marketbased and accounting-based bankruptcy prediction models
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 32 , p. 1541 - 1551
Crossref
Altman Edward , I
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,760
RANK
170,545
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies