Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Target’s Earnings Quality and Bidders’ Takeover Decisions

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2012

Kartik Raman

Bentley University

Lakshmanan Shivakumar

London Business School

Ane Tamayo

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 14, 2012

Abstract

This study examines how takeover decisions are influenced by the quality of information in target firms’ earnings. We show that bidders prefer negotiated takeovers in deals involving targets with poor earnings quality. Moreover, earnings quality and takeover premiums are negatively related in negotiated takeovers, suggesting that bidders obtain valuable private information through negotiations. We also find that bidders share information risk with target shareholders by paying with more equity for targets with poor earnings quality. These findings are driven primarily by the asymmetric information component of earnings quality (as opposed to the symmetric component), and are observed mainly in inter-industry takeovers, where asymmetric information concerns are greater, rather than in intra-industry takeovers. We conclude that targets’ earnings quality affects bidders’ takeover decisions, particularly in cases of large asymmetric information between targets and bidders.

Keywords: takeovers, earnings quality, asymmetric uncertainty, negotiation, bid premium, stock payment

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Raman, Kartik and Shivakumar, Lakshmanan and Tamayo, Ane Miren, Target’s Earnings Quality and Bidders’ Takeover Decisions (June 14, 2012). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2145991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Baker , R Ruback , J Wurgler
The handbook of corporate finance: Empirical corporate finance Posted: 2006
M M Bange , M A Mazzeo
Board composition, board effectiveness, and the observed form of takeover bids
Review of Financial Studies , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 1185 - 1215 Posted: 2004
Crossref
N Barberis , R Thaler
A survey of behavioral finance
Handbook of the economics of finance Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,371
RANK
208,120
30 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Targets' Earnings Quality and Bidders' Takeover Decisions

By Kartik Raman, Lakshmanan Shivakumar, ...

Target Firm-Specific Information and Acquisition Efficiency

By Xiumin Martin and Ron Shalev

The Role of Accounting Quality in the M&A Market

By Carol A. Marquardt and Emanuel Zur

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies