Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Data Mining Techniques for Detection of Financial Statement Fraud

The IUP Journal of Systems Management, Vol. X, No. 1, February 2012, pp. 7-15

Posted: 28 Sep 2012

Nasib Singh Gill

Maharshi Dayanand University

Rajan Gupta

Maharshi Dayanand University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Top level management is usually found responsible for fraudulent reporting of financial statements to fulfill the objective of artificially improving the financial performance and results of the company. Several data mining algorithms have been implemented for successful identification of fraudulent financial reporting. This paper explores the four commonly used data mining techniques, viz., Neural Network, Decision Trees, Genetic Algorithms and Bayesian Belief Networks for detection of financial statement fraud. This study investigates the effectiveness of these four techniques in identifying fraudulent financial statements. In addition, the techniques were compared in terms of their performances based on eight varying parameters. Neural network appeared as the most extensively used technique for detection and identification of financial statement fraud.

Suggested Citation:

Gill, Nasib Singh and Gupta, Rajan, Analysis of Data Mining Techniques for Detection of Financial Statement Fraud (2012). The IUP Journal of Systems Management, Vol. X, No. 1, February 2012, pp. 7-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2152771
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,046
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies