Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drift or Jump: What Drives Post-Earnings Announcement Stock Returns?

Advances in Quantitative Analysis of Finance and Accounting, Volume 11(2013), pp.175-206

36 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2012 Last revised: 2 Nov 2018

Linda H. Chen

University of Idaho

George J. Jiang

Washington State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 3, 2012

Abstract

One of the contentious issues regarding the post-earnings announcement drift (PEAD) is whether the abnormal stock return is driven by investors’ delayed reaction to earnings information or by unexpected information shocks subsequent to earnings announcement. In this paper, we disentangle unexpected large changes in stock prices, known as jumps, from total stock returns. Although on average jump occurs only once per firm quarter, it accounts for up to 40% of the return differential between top and bottom SUE deciles. This is evidence that a significant part of PAED is driven by unexpected information shocks. Nevertheless, the drift component still explains at least 50% of the variation of anomalous PEAD returns. The findings suggest that PEAD cannot be entirely attributed to investors’ delayed reaction to earnings information, but neither can the hypothesis be ruled out. In particular, we find that delayed reaction is more pronounced following positive earnings surprises.

Keywords: post-earnings announcement drift, delayed reaction to earnings information, unexpected information shocks, stock price jumps

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Linda H. and Jiang, George, Drift or Jump: What Drives Post-Earnings Announcement Stock Returns? (October 3, 2012). Advances in Quantitative Analysis of Finance and Accounting, Volume 11(2013), pp.175-206, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2156621 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2156621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Y Aït-Sahalia
Telling from discrete data whether the underlying continuous-time model is a diffusion
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 2075 - 2112 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Y Aït-Sahalia , J Jacod
Testing for jumps in a discretely observed process
Annals of Statistics , volume 37 , p. 184 - 222 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Afflleck-Graves , R R Mendenhall
The Relation between the Value Line Enigma and Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 31 , p. 75 - 96 Posted: 1992
Crossref
T G Andersen , L Benzoni , J Lund
An empirical investigation of continuous-time equity return models
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 1239 - 1284 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,887
RANK
104,509
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Arbitrage Risk and Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Richard R. Mendenhall

Liquidity and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Tarun Chordia, Ronnie Sadka, ...

Liquidity and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Tarun Chordia, Amit Goyal, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies