Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Comovement of Investor Attention

52 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2012 Last revised: 16 Dec 2015

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Darren T. Roulstone

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Jared N. Jennings

Washington University in St. Louis

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Date Written: December 1, 2015

Abstract

Prior literature has documented that investor attention and constraints on that attention are associated with the pricing of stocks. We introduce the concept of attention comovement, which is the extent to which investor attention for a firm is explained by attention paid to the firm’s industry and the market in general. We find that attention comovement is non-trivial for the average firm and is related to firm characteristics, such as size and visibility. We also find that the comovement of investor attention has market consequences, in that it is positively associated with excess stock return comovement. Finally, we show that a firm’s earnings announcement contributes to the transfer of attention from one firm to its peer firms. Our results provide insights about the information flows underlying return comovement and aid in understanding the micro- and macro-nature of investor attention.

Keywords: Investor attention, comovement, returns, EDGAR, Google

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Michael S. and Roulstone, Darren T. and Jennings, Jared N. and Thornock, Jacob, The Comovement of Investor Attention (December 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2157727 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2157727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D Aboody , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Limited Attention and the Earnings Announcement Returns of Past Stock Market Winners
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , p. 317 - 344 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Barber , T Odean
All That Glitters: The Effect of Attention and News on the Buying Behavior of Individual and Institutional Investors
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
Crossref
N Barberis , A Shleifer , J Wurgler
Comovement
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , p. 283 - 317 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Bushee , J Core , W Guay , S Hamm
The Role of the Business Press as an Information Intermediary
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
897
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,842
RANK
60,828
33 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies