Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multivariate GARCH Estimation via a Bregman-Proximal Trust-Region Method

Computational Statistics and Data Analysis, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2012 Last revised: 13 May 2014

Stéphane Chrétien

University of Burgundy Franche-Comté - Laboratoire de Mathematiques

Juan-Pablo Ortega

Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS); Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: October 14, 2012

Abstract

The estimation of multivariate GARCH time series models is a difficult task mainly due to the excessive parameterization exhibited by the problem, usually referred to as the "curse of dimensionality." For the VEC family, the number of parameters involved in the model grows as a polynomial of order four on the dimensionality of the problem and, additionally, these parameters are subjected to complex nonlinear constraints. So far, this problem has been addressed only in low dimensional cases with strong parsimony constraints for the diagonal three-dimensional VEC handled with ad-hoc techniques. A general formulation of the estimation problem in any dimension and a Bregman-proximal trust-region method for its solution is proposed. The Bregman-proximal approach allows to handle the constraints in a very efficient and natural way by staying in the primal space and the Trust-Region mechanism stabilizes and speeds up the scheme. Preliminary computational experiments are presented and confirm the very good performance of the proposed approach.

Keywords: multivariate GARCH, VEC model, volatility modeling, multivariate financial time series, Bregman divergences, Burg's divergence, LogDet divergence, constrained optimization

JEL Classification: C5

Suggested Citation:

Chrétien, Stéphane and Ortega, Juan-Pablo and Ortega, Juan-Pablo, Multivariate GARCH Estimation via a Bregman-Proximal Trust-Region Method (October 14, 2012). Computational Statistics and Data Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2161562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2161562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
We now show (3.10). Let v ∈ R N and ∆ ∈ S n arbitrary. Identity (7.7) and the linearity of the various mappings involved imply that T c H t · v = math (v + Bvech(T c H t−1 · v)) and hence T * c H t · ∆, v = ∆, T c H t · v = ∆, math (v + Bvech(T c H t−1 · v)) = math * (∆) + T * c H t−1 · vech * (B T math * (∆))
Carol Alexander
Principal component models for generating large covariance matrices
Economic Notes , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 337 - 359 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Mastering Risk
Financial Times , volume 2 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 1998
Carol Alexander , A M Chibumba
Multivariate orthogonal factor GARCH Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,235
RANK
456,571
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies