Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pension Funds and the Required Minimum Funding Ratio: A Research on Earnings Management in Dutch Pension Funds

22 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2012 Last revised: 21 Oct 2012

Peter Westerduin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jerry Wouterson

Nyenrode Business University

Henk P. A. J. Langendijk

University of Amsterdam

Date Written: October 18, 2012

Abstract

This paper suggests that the financial crisis, which made itself felt at end of 2008, gave company pension funds in the Netherlands cause to manage the funding ratio, in order to prevent it from dropping below the level of the required minimum funding ratio. On the other hand, industry-wide pension funds have not managed their funding ratio. Possible explanations are: the (stronger) involvement of social partners, and the greater social and political visibility of industry-wide pension funds. In addition, the sponsor of a company pension fund usually sits on the Managing Board of the pension fund and, in this way, is able to exercise influence on the policy of the pension fund.

Keywords: Discontinuity, Earnings management, Financial crisis, Funding ratio, Pension funds, Threshold

JEL Classification: G23, M4

Suggested Citation:

Westerduin, Peter and Wouterson, Jerry and Langendijk, Henk P. A. J., Pension Funds and the Required Minimum Funding Ratio: A Research on Earnings Management in Dutch Pension Funds (October 18, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2163732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2163732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , C Mccarthy
Use of loan loss provisions for capital, earnings management and signalling by Australian banks, Accounting and Finance , volume 47 , p. 357 - 379 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Beatty , S L Chamerlain , J Magliolo
Managing Financial Reports of Commercial Banks: The Influence of Taxes, Regulatory Capital, and Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 231 - 261 Posted: 1995
Crossref
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , K K Nelson
An Alternative Interpretation of the Discontinuity in Earnings Distributions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 525 - 556 Posted: 2007
Crossref
David C. Burgstahler , Elizabeth Chuk
What Have We Learned About Earnings Management? Integrating Discontinuity Evidence
Pages: 35 Posted: 20 Jun 2011 Last revised: 18 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,946
RANK
186,854
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Consolidation in the U.S. Banking Industry: Is the "Long, Strange Trip" About to End?

By Kenneth D. Jones and Tim Critchfield

Changes in the Size Distribution of U. S. Banks: 1960-2005

By Hubert Janicki and Edward S. Prescott

Consolidation in the U.S. Banking Industry: Is the Long, Strange Trip About to End?

By Kenneth D. Jones and Tim Critchfield

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies