Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Analysts Assess Fundamental Risk and Valuation Uncertainty? An Empirical Analysis of Scenario-Based Value Estimates

49 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2012 Last revised: 29 Nov 2012

Peter R. Joos

INSEAD

Joseph D. Piotroski

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Suraj Srinivasan

Harvard Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 19, 2012

Abstract

We use a dataset of sell-side analysts' scenario-based valuation estimates to examine whether analysts reliably assess the risk surrounding a firm’s fundamental value. We find that the spread in analysts’ state-contingent valuations captures the riskiness of operations and predicts the absolute magnitude of future long-run valuation errors and changes in firm fundamentals. Similarly, asymmetry embedded in the analysts’ scenario-based valuations conveys information about asymmetric risk-reward exposure and predicts skewness in future long-run valuation errors; however, embedded asymmetry is not correlated with changes in fundamentals. The results confirm that analysts’ valuations reflect both state-contingent risk assessments and non-fundamental factors.

Keywords: Valuation, Analyst Forecasts, Scenarios, Uncertainty

JEL Classification: G13, G24, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Joos, Peter R. and Piotroski, Joseph D. and Srinivasan, Suraj, Can Analysts Assess Fundamental Risk and Valuation Uncertainty? An Empirical Analysis of Scenario-Based Value Estimates (September 19, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2164379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2164379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A Au
Information Content of Equity Analyst Reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Barber , R Lehavy , M Mcnichols , B Trueman
Can investors profit from the prophets? Consensus analyst recommendations and stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 773 - 806 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W Beaver , P Kettler , M Scholes
The association between market determined and accounting determined risk measures
The Accounting Review , p. 654 - 82 Posted: 1970-10
A Beyer , D Cohen , T Lys , B Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
948
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,099
RANK
24,461
5 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies