Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Accounting: An Accounting Based Approach to Measuring Enterprise Risk and Risk Appetite

40 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2012 Last revised: 17 Jul 2013

Kiran Fernandes

Durham University Business School

Allan D. Grody

Financial InterGroup; New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Peter J. Hughes

Durham Business School - Centre for Banking, Institutions & Development

Oliver Phillips

University of York - The York Management School

Steve Toms

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

The resetting of the risk management agenda through successive capital accords has had little impact on the ability of many firms to prevent losses which raises concerns as to whether the risk calculation methods applied in the calibration of regulatory capital are fit for purpose. This has been the focus of recent public comment by global regulators, central bankers and industry commentators who suggest that excessively complex and flawed capital adequacy rules that rely on risk modeling techniques such as Value-at-Risk (VaR) were a contributing factor in the financial crisis.

We argue that the disclosure of an enterprise’s financial condition and the concomitant determination of its capital adequacy must be a function of accounting rather than financial modeling. We further argue that if accounting is to fulfill this core function, the current practice of basing accounting on fair values must be adapted such that accounting is based on the risk exposures inherent in approved transactions. In this paper we demonstrate how this may be achieved by adding risk information to the existing management information that is attached to transactions upon their registration in accounting systems. The incremental risk information enables a calculation of risk-weighted transaction values that are accounted for using a new risk abstraction - the Risk Unit (RU). In this way a comprehensive risk management system is created that is tied to the financials of the enterprise.

We further demonstrate how risk accounting aligned with management accounting can produce a system of integrated risk and management reporting by, for example, group, organisation unit, product, customer and geography which, in turn, enables the risk appetite setting process to become an integral part of the enterprise’s financial planning and budgeting cycle.

Over time, risk accounting outputs can be correlated with expected and actual losses thereby imparting a monetary value to the RU abstraction which can be used in the determination of regulatory capital requirements, the computation of risk adjusted return on capital (RAROC) and adjusting the betas in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) thus bridging accounting with economic theory and risk management concepts.

Keywords: Risk measurement, Risk management, Operational risk, Enterprise risk, Risk appetite

JEL Classification: D81, E10, F02, F23, G2, G38, L2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Fernandes, Kiran and Grody, Allan D. and Hughes, Peter J. and Phillips, Oliver and Toms, Steve, Risk Accounting: An Accounting Based Approach to Measuring Enterprise Risk and Risk Appetite (July 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2165034 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2165034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
H Shalit , S Yitzhaki
Mean-Gini, Portfolio Theory, and the Pricing of
Risky Assets The Journal of Finance , volume 39 , p. 5 - 1449 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Jrm Hosking , J R Wallis
Parameter and Quantile Estimation for the Generalized Pareto Distribution
Technometrics , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 339 - 349 Posted: 1987
Crossref
J Claus , J Thomas
Equity Premia as Low as Three Percent? Evidence from Analysts' Earnings Forecasts for Domestic and International Stock Markets
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 1629 - 66 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Brearley , S Myers
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,590
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,319
RANK
7,296
3 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies