Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extracting Sustainable Earnings from Profit Margins

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2012

Eli Amir

Tel Aviv University

Eti Einhorn

Tel Aviv University

Itay Kama

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: October 23, 2012

Abstract

Revenues and expenses are fundamentally proportional to one another, but are likely to be disproportionally affected by transitory items or economic shocks. We build on this observation and propose a new measure of sustainable earnings based on deviations from normal profit margins. While some other sustainable earnings metrics attempt to identify transitory components on a line-by-line basis, our measure, referred to as the intensity of core earnings, uses ratio analysis to extract the transitory portion of earnings from all line items. We find that the intensity of core earnings, as measured here, is positively associated with earnings persistence, better earnings predictability, and stronger market reaction to unexpected earnings. We also find that our measure is positively associated with post-earnings announcement excess stock returns. Comparing our measure with an accrual-based measure of earnings quality, we find that, in general, the two metrics provide distinct incremental information relative to one another and in some instances our measure is better than an accrual-based measure in assessing earnings quality.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Sustainable Earnings, Profit Margins, Ratio Analysis, Earnings Persistence, Analysts Forecast

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Amir, Eli and Einhorn, Eti and Kama, Itay, Extracting Sustainable Earnings from Profit Margins (October 23, 2012). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2166019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
E Amir , B Lev , T Sougiannis
Do financial analysts get intangibles?
European Accounting Review , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 635 - 659 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W Landsman
The market valuation implications of net periodic pension cost components
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 18 , p. 27 - 62 Posted: 1992
Crossref
V L Bernard , J K Thomas
Post-earnings-announcement drift: Delayed price response or risk premium
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 1989
Crossref
V L Bernard , J K Thomas
Evidence that stock prices do not fully reflect the implications of current earnings for future earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 13 , p. 305 - 340 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Neha Arora Chawla , Dr. Pooja Chaturvedi Sharma
Sustainable Finance in Emerging Markets: Rational for Indian Stock Market and Decision Making for Sustainable Future
Journal of Commerce and Accounting Research, Vol 9 (4), 2020 · 13 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2021 · Last revised: 15 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 256
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,611
RANK
216,668
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies