Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing Abnormal Accruals Estimates Across Samples: An International Test

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Oct 2012

Erik Peek

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Rotterdam School of Management (RSM); Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Roger Meuwissen

Maastricht Accounting and Auditing Research and Education Center (MARC)

Frank Moers

Maastricht University School of Business and Economics; European Centre for Corporate Engagement (ECCE)

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Date Written: October 29, 2012

Abstract

This study examines whether accruals models’ performance, in terms of predictive accuracy and power to detect earnings management, varies across strongly heterogeneous samples, such as different countries. We analyze the performance of two accruals estimation models, i.e., the Modified Jones model and the Dechow-Dichev model. Using accounting data from nine countries for the period 1989 to 2009, we find that the models exhibit considerable cross-country performance variation and, more importantly, that this variation is systematic. We empirically establish that the international variation in sales growth persistence, accounting practices, and sample size explains a significant proportion of the cross-country performance variation, highlighting a potential inference problem in across-samples comparisons.

Keywords: abnormal accruals models, earnings management detection, predictive accuracy, international accounting

Suggested Citation:

Peek, Erik and Meuwissen, Roger and Moers, Frank and Vanstraelen, Ann, Comparing Abnormal Accruals Estimates Across Samples: An International Test (October 29, 2012). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2168098
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,490
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies