Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Anticipated Information Impose a Cost on Risk-Averse Investors? A Test of the Hirshleifer Effect

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2012 Last revised: 15 Dec 2012

Ryan T. Ball

The Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan

Date Written: November 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper theoretically and empirically investigates how the risk of future adverse price changes created by the anticipated arrival of information influences risk-averse investors’ trading decisions in institutionally imperfect capital markets. Specifically, I examine how the selling activity of individual investors immediately following an earnings announcement is influenced by the trade-off between risk-sharing benefits of immediate trade and explicit transaction costs imposed on such trades. Consistent with my theoretically derived predictions, I find that investors’ current trading decisions are less sensitive to the incremental transaction costs created by short-term capital gains taxes on trading profits, as both the duration and intensity of the risk of future adverse price changes increase. This evidence is consistent with an incremental cost to investors that results from the revelation of precise information, which is commonly referred to as the Hirshleifer Effect (Hirshleifer, 1971; Verrecchia, 1982).

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ryan T., Does Anticipated Information Impose a Cost on Risk-Averse Investors? A Test of the Hirshleifer Effect (November 1, 2012). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2170061
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Bipin B Ajinkya , C Prem , Jain
The Behavior of Daily Stock Market Trading Volume
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 331 - 59 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Michael Alles , Russell Lundholm
On the Optimality of Public Signals in the Presence of Private Information
Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 112 Posted: 1993
Rowland K Atiase , Linda S Bamber
Trading Volume Reactions to Annual Accounting Earnings Announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 309 - 338 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Allen B Atkins , Edward A Dyl
Transaction Costs and Holding Periods for Common Stocks
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 309 - 334 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Florian Buhlmann , Philipp Dörrenberg , Johannes Voget , Benjamin Loos
How do Taxes Affect the Trading Behavior of Private Investors? Evidence from Individual Portfolio Data
ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 20-047 · 83 Pages · Posted: 14 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 128
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andrii Babii , Ryan T. Ball , Eric Ghysels , Jonas Striaukas
Panel Data Nowcasting: The Case of Price-Earnings Ratios
28 Pages · Posted: 9 Sep 2022 · Last revised: 22 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 299
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
430
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,211
RANK
155,149
2 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capitalization of Capital Gains Taxes: Evidence from Stock Price Reactions to the 1997 Rate Reduction

By Mark H. Lang and Douglas A. Shackelford

Debt-Equity Hybrid Securities

By Ellen Engel, Merle Erickson, ...

How Burdensome are Capital Gains Taxes?

By James M. Poterba

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies