Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spurious Regressions and Near-Multicollinearity, with an Application to Aid, Policies and Growth

23 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2012

Jean-Bernard Chatelain

Paris School of Economics, Université Paris 1 Panthéon Sorbonne

Kirsten Ralf

Ecole Supérieure du Commerce Extérieur (ESCE)

Date Written: November 8, 2012

Abstract

In multiple regressions, explanatory variables with simple correlation coefficients with the dependent variable below 0.1 in absolute value (such as aid with economic growth) may have very large and statistically significant estimated parameters which are unfortunately "outliers driven" and spurious. This is obtained by including another regressor which is highly correlated with the initial regressor, such as a lag, a square or interaction terms of this regressor. The analysis is applied on the "Botswana outliers driven" Burnside and Dollar [2000] article which found that aid had an effect on growth only for countries achieving "good" macroeconomic policies.

Keywords: Near-Multicollinearity, Student t-Statistic, Spurious regressions, Ceteris paribus, Parameter Inflation Factor, Growth, Foreign Aid

JEL Classification: C12, C52, F35, O19, O47, P45

Suggested Citation:

Chatelain, Jean-Bernard and Ralf, Kirsten, Spurious Regressions and Near-Multicollinearity, with an Application to Aid, Policies and Growth (November 8, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2173720 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2173720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Belsley
Posted: 1991
Crossref
Conditioning Diagnostics: Collinearity and Weak Data in Regression
Crossref
C Burnside , D Dollar
Posted: 2000
Crossref
Aid, policies and growth
American Economic Review , volume 90 , p. 847 - 68
Crossref
Load more
8 Citations
Jean-Bernard Chatelain
Can Statistics do without Artefacts?
42 Pages · Posted: 2 Dec 2012 · Downloads: 63
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jean-Bernard Chatelain , Kirsten Ralf
The Failure of Financial Macroeconomics and What to Do About It
28 Pages · Posted: 19 Jul 2012 · Downloads: 76
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
JEAN‐BERNARD CHATELAIN , KIRSTEN RALF
THE FAILURE OF FINANCIAL MACROECONOMICS AND WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT
The Manchester School , volume 80 , issue s1 , p. 21 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Karim Azizi , Nicolas Canry , Jean-Bernard Chatelain , Bruno Tinel
Government Solvency, Austerity and Fiscal Consolidation in the OECD: A Keynesian Appraisal of Transversality and No Ponzi Game Conditions
19 Pages · Posted: 26 Apr 2013 · Downloads: 61
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,668
RANK
798,750
8 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Aid, Policies, and Growth

By A. Craig Burnside and David Dollar

Aid, Policies, and Growth: Revisiting the Evidence

By A. Craig Burnside and David Dollar

Who Gives Foreign Aid to Whom and Why?

By Alberto F. Alesina and David Dollar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies