Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Experience and the Timeliness of Litigation Loss Contingency Disclosures

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2179148

36 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2012 Last revised: 13 Jun 2017

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Yu Hou

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Gordon D. Richardson

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: March 15, 2017

Abstract

This paper hypothesizes and finds that firms audited by city-industry specialists have more timely disclosures of contingent losses from litigation, when there is no news coverage relating to the legal case prior to management disclosures. A closer examination reveals that this result is explained by the specialist auditors’ prior experience auditing clients in the same office and industry who are involved with litigation. In our setting, disclosures of litigation-related contingent losses, we identify two kinds of knowledge generated from experience, industry knowledge and litigation knowledge. Industry knowledge helps auditors detect and correct a poor implementation of guidance for litigation loss contingency disclosures. Auditors gain litigation knowledge from auditing clients in a given office and industry with previous involvement as defendants. Thus, the two types of knowledge interact in their effects on reporting outcomes.

Keywords: Litigation Loss Contingency Disclosures, Auditor Industry Specialization, Litigation Experience

JEL Classification: K41, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Hou, Yu and Richardson, Gordon D. and Ye, Minlei, Auditor Experience and the Timeliness of Litigation Loss Contingency Disclosures (March 15, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2179148, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2179148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2179148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Moalla Marwa , Bassem Salhi , Anis Jarboui
Environmental Audit and Environmental Disclosure Quality
Scientific Annals of Economics and Business , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 93 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Tracy (Ti) Gu , Kai Wai Hui , Yingzhen Jiang , Dan A. Simunic
Federal Judge Ideology and the Going Concern Reporting Incentives of Big Four and Non-Big Four Auditors
<span style="color: rgb(28, 29, 30); font-family: &quot;Open Sans&quot;, sans-serif; font-size: 14px; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">Contemporary Accounting Research</span> · 52 Pages · Posted: 23 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 25 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 496
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
566
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,113
RANK
111,191
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Auditor Industry Specialization and Earnings Quality

By Steven Balsam, Jagan Krishnan, ...

Auditor Industry Specialization and Client Disclosure Quality

By Kimberly Dunn, Brian W. Mayhew, ...

Audit Firm Industry Specialization as a Differentiation Strategy: Evidence from Fees Charged to Firms Going Public

By Brian W. Mayhew and Michael S. Wilkins

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies