Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cross Section of Expected Holding Period Returns and Their Dynamics: A Present Value Approach

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 13-050

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2182628

57 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2012 Last revised: 20 Jun 2014

Matthew R. Lyle

Goizueta Business School

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 19, 2014

Abstract

We provide a tractable model of firm-level expected holding period returns using two firm fundamentals ― book-to-market ratio and ROE ― and study the cross-sectional properties of the model-implied expected returns. We find that: 1) firm level expected returns and expected profitability are time-varying, but highly persistent; 2) forecasts of holding period returns strongly predict the cross section of future returns up to three years ahead. We document a highly significant predictive pooled regression slope for future quarterly returns of 0.86, whereas the popular factor-based expected return models have either an insignificant or a significantly negative association with future returns. In supplemental analyses, we show that these forecasts are also informative of the time-series variation in aggregate conditions: 1) for a representative firm, the slope of the conditional expected return curve is more positive in good times, when expected short-run returns are relatively low; 2) the model-implied forecaster of aggregate returns exhibits modest predictive ability. Collectively, we provide a simple, theoretically-motivated, and practically useful approach to estimating multi-period ahead expected returns.

Keywords: Expected returns, discount rates, holding period returns, fundamental valuation, present value

JEL Classification: G12, G17, G10

Suggested Citation:

Lyle, Matthew R. and Wang, Charles C. Y., The Cross Section of Expected Holding Period Returns and Their Dynamics: A Present Value Approach (June 19, 2014). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 13-050, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2182628, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2182628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2182628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Ang , G Bekaert
Stock return predictability: Is it there?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 651 - 707 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ang , J Liu
How to discount cashflows with time-varying expected returns
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 6 , p. 2745 - 2783 Posted: 2004
Crossref
W Beaver , M Mcnichols , R Price
Delisting returns and their effect on accounting-based market anomalies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 341 - 368 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Callen
Shocks to shocks: A theoretical foundation for the information content of earnings
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 166 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,281
RANK
31,593
18 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Does Individual Option Volatility Smirk Tell Us About Future Equity Returns?

By Xiaoyan Zhang, Rui Zhao, ...

Volatility Spreads and Expected Stock Returns

By Turan G. Bali and Armen Hovakimian

Volatility Spreads and Expected Stock Returns

By Turan G. Bali and Armen Hovakimian

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies