Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Finding Rules for Audit Opinions Prediction Through Data Mining Methods

9 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2012

Seyed Mojtaba Saif

Islamic Azad University, Safashahr, Iran - Department of Computer, Safashahr Branch

Mehdi Sarikhani

Department of Accounting, Safashahr Branch, Islamic Azad University, Safashahr, Iran.

Fahime Ebrahimi

Islamic Azad University, Safashahr, Iran - Department of Accounting, Safashahr Branch

Date Written: October 13, 2012

Abstract

Nowadays data mining, which is used in various accounting and financial applications, has received a great deal of attention. One of these applications is predicting and identifying the audit opinion type. The objective of research is to help auditors identify audit opinions by using a support vector machine from data mining methods. The system receives the data from financial reports and identifies the type of audit opinions. This approach combine support vector machine with a decision tree that can understand and interpret the obtained results. In this paper, a novel approach for rule extraction from support vector machine and decision tree is presented and its application is shown in the prediction of audit opinions. The research result is 30 rules that predict the audit opinions.

Keywords: Audit opinions, data mining, support vector machine, artificial neural networks, decision tree

Suggested Citation:

Saif, Seyed Mojtaba and Sarikhani, Mehdi and Ebrahimi, Fahime, Finding Rules for Audit Opinions Prediction Through Data Mining Methods (October 13, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2185919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2185919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
References Beasley , S M Carcello , J V Hermanson , D R
Fraudulent financial reporting: 1987-1997: an analysis of US public companies Posted: 1999
T Bell , R Tabor
Empirical analysis of audit uncertainty qualifications
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 350 - 370 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M Bonneville , J Meunier , Y Bengio , J P Soucy
Support vector machines for improving the classification of brain PET images
Proceedings of the SPIE medical imaging symposium , volume 3338 , p. 264 - 273 Posted: 1998
Crossref
C J C Burges
SA tutorial on support vector machines for pattern recognition
Data Mining and knowledge , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 167 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,786
RANK
198,863
5 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Ethics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

More than a Dummy: The Probability of Failure, Survival and Acquisition of Firms in Financial Distress

By Thomas B. Astebro and Joachim K. Winter

Takeover Likelihood Models for UK Quoted Companies

By Robin Nuttall

An Empirical Analysis of the Effects of the Threat of Takeover on UK Company Performance

By Robin Nuttall

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies