Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Conceptual Model for ERP Failure Prediction Using Fuzzy Petri-Nets for Small and Medium Enterprises

European Journal of Scientific Research, Vol. 87, No. 3, pp. 330-338, October, 2012

9 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2012

Vijayakumar Bharathi

Symbiosis International University - Symbiosis Centre for Information Technology (SCIT); Symbiosis International University - Symbiosis Centre for Information Technology

Dhanya Pramod

Symbiosis International University - Symbiosis Centre for Information Technology

Ramakrishnan Raman

SIBM, Pune - SIU

Date Written: April 30, 2012

Abstract

This paper attempts to identify and evaluate certain critical pitfalls in the planning stage of ERP adoption in Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and develop into a model for evaluating the risk of failure. In the planning stage a set of risks have been identified based on past research work and each of these risks have been explained through a set of well-defined risk factors or pitfalls. The evaluation model based on the concept of Fuzzy Petri Nets (FPN) is proposed in this paper. FPN is used because it is simple and efficient and can quantitatively evaluate the risks inherent in the planning stage of ERP adoption by SMEs.

Keywords: ERP adoption, SMEs, failure prediction, risk, fuzzy petri-nets

JEL Classification: D83, L21, L60, M1, M19, O30, O33

Suggested Citation:

Bharathi, Vijayakumar and Bharathi, Vijayakumar and Pramod, Dhanya and Raman, Ramakrishnan, A Conceptual Model for ERP Failure Prediction Using Fuzzy Petri-Nets for Small and Medium Enterprises (April 30, 2012). European Journal of Scientific Research, Vol. 87, No. 3, pp. 330-338, October, 2012 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2186972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
A Pasha
Growing with ERP in the driver's seat Posted: 2007-02
T H Davenport
Putting the Enterprise into the Enterprise System
Harvard Business Review , volume 76 , p. 121 - 133 Posted: 1998
T H Davenport
Mission Critical: Realizing the Promise of Enterprise Systems Posted: 2000
J Scott
The FoxMeyer Drugs' Bankruptcy: Was it a Failure of ERP?
Proceedings of AMCIS 1999 Americas Conference on Information Systems , p. 223 - 225 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,812
RANK
288,800
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Operations Management eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Comparative Study on the Conceptual and Contextual Perception About CSF for ERP Adoption in the SMEs

By Vijayakumar Bharathi and Shrikant Parikh

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies