Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Credit Competition on Banks’ Loan Loss Provisions

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2012 Last revised: 23 Apr 2017

Yiwei Dou

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Youli Zou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: January 11, 2017

Abstract

Exploiting differential interstate branching deregulation across contiguous counties of adjacent states, we investigate the effect of entry threat on incumbent banks’ loan loss provisions. Incumbents exposed to entry threat have offsetting incentives; lower provisions make their loan underwriting quality appear better, deterring entry, while local economic conditions appear better, encouraging entry. We find that the incentive to increase apparent loan underwriting quality dominates on average. We further find that this incentive is stronger in counties with a higher proportion of heterogeneous loans, and that the other incentive dominates in counties with both few heterogeneous loans and highly volatile economic conditions.

Keywords: banks, deregulation, interstate branching, credit competition, loan loss provision, loan underwriting quality, natural experiment

JEL Classification: G21, L10, L89, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dou, Yiwei and Ryan, Stephen G. and Zou, Youli, The Effect of Credit Competition on Banks’ Loan Loss Provisions (January 11, 2017). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2192586 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2192586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: A reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B Akins , L Li , J Ng , T Rusticus
Bank competition and financial stability: Evidence from the financial crisis
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2016
Crossref
B Akins , Y Dou , J Ng
Corruption in bank lending: The role of timely loan loss recognition
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,523
RANK
45,176
15 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Relationship Lending and Lines of Credit in Small Firm Finance

By Allen N. Berger and Gregory F. Udell

Lines of Credit and Relationship Lending in Small Firm Finance

By Allen N. Berger and Gregory F. Udell

Information Production and Capital Allocation: Decentralized vs. Hierarchical Firms

By Jeremy C. Stein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies