Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multivariate Dependence of Implied Volatilities from Equity Options as Measure of Systemic Risk

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 28, 2013

57 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2012 Last revised: 15 Jun 2013

Andreas (Andy) Jobst

Central Bank of the UAE; University of Cambridge; Saint Edmund's College

Date Written: March 3, 2013

Abstract

This paper presents a methodology to examine the multivariate tail dependence of the implied volatility of equity options as an early warning indicator of systemic risk within the financial sector. Using non-parametric methods of estimating changes in the dependence structure in response to common shocks affecting individual risk profiles, possible linkages during periods of stress are quantifiable while recognizing that large shocks are transmitted across financial markets differently than small shocks. Before and during the initial phase of the financial crisis, we find that systemic risk increased globally as early as February 2007- months before the unraveling of the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis and long before the collapse of Lehman Brothers. The average (multivariate) dependence among a global sample of banks and insurance companies increased by almost 30 percent while joint tail risk declined by about the same order of magnitude, indicating that co-movements of large changes in equity volatility were more likely to occur and responses to extreme shocks became more differentiated as distress escalated. The key policy consideration flowing from our analysis is that complementary measures of joint tail risk at high data frequency are essential to the robust measurement of systemic risk, which could enhance market-based early warning mechanisms as part of macroprudential surveillance.

Keywords: early warning, dependence, correlation, co-movement, systemic risk, extreme value theory, generalized extreme value, entropy, financial contagion, macroprudential surveillance

JEL Classification: C46, C51, G01, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Jobst, Andreas A., Multivariate Dependence of Implied Volatilities from Equity Options as Measure of Systemic Risk (March 3, 2013). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 28, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2194213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2194213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
Acharya , V Viral , Pedersen , H Lasse , Thomas Philippon , Matthew P Richardson
Measuring Systemic Risk
Working paper presented at Research Conference on Quantifying Systemic Risk, 6 November Posted: 2009
Crossref
_______
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland Working Paper 10-02
_______
Measuring Systemic Risk
CEPR Discussion Paper , volume 8824
Acharya , Viral , Robert F Engle , Matthew Richardson
Capital Shortfall: A New Approach to Ranking and Regulating Systemic Risk Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Andreas A. Jobst
Systemic Risk in the Insurance Sector: A Review of Current Assessment Approaches
The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance - Issues and Practice (Forthcoming) · 34 Pages · Posted: 15 Mar 2012 · Last revised: 16 May 2014 · Downloads: 471
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andreas A. Jobst
Measuring Systemic Risk-Adjusted Liquidity (SRL) — A Model Approach
52 Pages · Posted: 1 Apr 2013 · Last revised: 16 May 2014 · Downloads: 109
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andreas A. Jobst
Measuring Systemic Risk-Adjusted Liquidity (SRL) — A Model Approach
Systemic Risk: Liquidity Risk, Governance and Financial Stability · 52 Pages · Posted: 1 Apr 2013 · Last revised: 16 May 2014 · Downloads: 180
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Somnath Chatterjee , Andreas A. Jobst
Market-Implied Systemic Risk and Shadow Capital Adequacy
Bank of England Working Paper No. 823, September 2019 · 53 Pages · Posted: 17 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 146
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,757
RANK
325,744
4 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Capital Markets - Risk eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

CoVaR

By Tobias Adrian and Markus K. Brunnermeier

CoVaR

By Tobias Adrian and Markus K. Brunnermeier

A Theory of Systemic Risk and Design of Prudential Bank Regulation

By Viral V. Acharya

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies