Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Review a Paper

40 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2012 Last revised: 1 Feb 2014

Derek Oler

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

William Pasewark

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business, Area of Accounting

Date Written: January 28, 2014

Abstract

This paper introduces the review process to new researchers, describes the institutional background for reviews, and provides advice to reviewers. The objectives of a quality review are (1) to assist the editor in his/her gatekeeping role and (2) to assist the authors in improving their work. We argue that the review process plays a critical role in the dissemination of research that ultimately provides credibility to the body of academic knowledge. This process relies on expert, anonymous reviews by established researchers (typically those who have already published in top journals on similar topics). Because reviewers are relatively scarce, and anonymous, the review process also relies on the personal ethics of reviewers. Invitations to review should only be accepted if the researcher has the skill, time, objectivity, and inclination to do a quality review. A quality review should consider the contribution, execution, and conclusions of the paper.

Keywords: review process, accounting research

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Oler, Derek and Pasewark, William, How to Review a Paper (January 28, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2194232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2194232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
The reviewer should also be professional in reading over the response to the reviewers' and editor's concerns by the authors and recognize that disagreements should not be taken personally
Charles D Bailey , F Joe , Dana R Hair , Victoria L Hermanson , Crittenden
Marketing academics' perceptions of the peer review process
Marketing Education Review , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 265 - 280 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Charles D Bailey , R Dana , Timothy J Hermanson , Louwers
An examination of the peer review process in accounting journals
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 26 , p. 55 - 72 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Charles D Bailey , R Dana , James G Hermanson , Tomkins
The peer review process in finance journals
Journal of Financial Education , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
989
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,439
RANK
53,170
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Research and Higher Education in Economics: Can We Deliver the Lisbon Objectives?

By Jacques H. Dreze and Fernanda Estevan

Subdiscipline-Specific Journal Rankings: Whither Applied Economics?

By Christopher B. Barrett, Aliakbar Olia, ...

Ranking Economics Departments Worldwide on the Basis of Phd Placement

By Rabah Amir and Malgorzata Knauff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies