Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Analysts: Method for Defining Peer Firms

47 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2012 Last revised: 10 Feb 2020

Markku Kaustia

Aalto University

Ville Rantala

University of Miami - Department of Finance

Date Written: September 23, 2019

Abstract

We develop a method for defining groups of peer firms on the basis of joint analyst coverage. Besides industry boundaries, analysts’ coverage choices reflect other aspects of firm relatedness such as business model. We find that the analyst-based method produces substantially more homogenous groups of firms compared to common industry classifications, and has a number of other desirable properties. The paper has two broader implications. First, it demonstrates the advantages of a self-organizing approach to classification, as opposed to a hierarchical system. Second, it illustrates a new positive information production externality generated by the institution of security market analysis.

Keywords: Peer firms, industry classification, analysts

JEL Classification: G19, G39

Suggested Citation:

Kaustia, Markku and Rantala, Ville, Common Analysts: Method for Defining Peer Firms (September 23, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2194624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2194624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Daron Acemoglu , Vasco M. Carvalho , Asuman E. Ozdaglar , Alireza Tahbaz-Salehi
The Network Origins of Aggregate Fluctuations
MIT Department of Economics Working Paper No. 11-23 Pages: 36 Posted: 22 Oct 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K Ahern , J Harford
The Importance of Industry Links in Merger Waves
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A M Albuquerque , ; ; G. De Franco , R S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
Crossref
U Ali , D A Hirshleifer
Shared Analyst Coverage: Unifying Momentum Spillover Effects
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,086
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,257
RANK
46,569
12 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies