Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Declaration Tax Audit Using Chaos Theory (Neural Networks)

Archives Des Sciences, Vol. 65, No. 7, July 2012

16 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2013

Roya Darabi

Tehran South Branch of Islamic Azad University, Tehran-Iran - Department of Accounting

Abolfazl Zohoriyan

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - South Tehran Branch

Shukufe Etebar

Islamic Azad University (IAU), Karaj Branch - Sama Technical and Vocational Training

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Legal person’s Declaration Tax audit or corporate income tax returns for audit computer to help classify the exact percentage difference of profit before tax compared with the pre express income tax return is expected. The number of floor tax affairs is able to make with priorities based on risk, they should consider. The aim of the research, applied research and the nature of the research is event or the last study. The cognitive theory adopts a model that attempted to measure the degree of chaos and turbulence variables are investigated. According to research findings from the ten companies were listening the Tehran securities and stock exchange, during the period 1989-2010 showed that the results of research hypotheses. Variables Using Neural Network projections were made forecasting before. Next, for a variable earnings before income tax predicting for the manner of neurons artificial nose to network with five input neurons (the two major variables: the rate of inflation and rate of Economic growth and 3 small variables incomes, the total of costs and earning before deduction of tax reviewed company) was. In siding and out siding the error forecasting a sample of firms shows that forecasting to Artificial neural network with one input neuron has better result than expected with five input neurons. In the study between artificial neural network methods with two classical methods of linear simple regression, and regression to explanation, a comparison was done. The results showed that the hypothesis was accepted. And artificial neural network method for predicting is efficient and accurate tool.

Keywords: taxes, chaos theory, Artificial Neural Networks, forecasting, legal persons Declaration Tax audit

Suggested Citation:

Darabi, Roya and Zohoriyan, Abolfazl and Etebar, Shukufe, Declaration Tax Audit Using Chaos Theory (Neural Networks) (2012). Archives Des Sciences, Vol. 65, No. 7, July 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2195994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,298
RANK
429,664
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Comparative Political Economy: Fiscal Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies