Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the SDC Mergers and Acquisitions Database

44 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2013 Last revised: 9 Feb 2014

Beau Grant Barnes

Washington State University

Nancy L. Harp

Clemson University

Derek Oler

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Date Written: February 7, 2014

Abstract

We compare 20 years of data from SDC’s Mergers and Acquisitions database with a hand-collected database, providing evidence on the completeness and accuracy of SDC data across time. We find that our hand-collected data is generally more accurate than SDC, but SDC’s accuracy and coverage improves over time. Our investigation of discrepancies between the databases finds that SDC is more prone to errors on smaller, high book-to-market acquirers with a weak announcement period market response. Preliminary analyses suggest that this potential bias is not significant, but may affect inferences when examining smaller, high book-to-market firms. Our work also highlights many of the difficulties involved in hand-collection. Where possible, we offer practical advice and solutions to researchers as they deal with important subtleties in conducting mergers and acquisitions research.

Keywords: SDC, mergers, acquisitions

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Barnes, Beau Grant and Harp, Nancy and Oler, Derek, Evaluating the SDC Mergers and Acquisitions Database (February 7, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2201743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2201743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
21 Citations
Derek Oler , William Pasewark
How to Review a Paper
40 Pages · Posted: 28 Dec 2012 · Last revised: 1 Feb 2014 · Downloads: 989
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
RJ Andrews , Catherine Fazio , Jorge Guzman , Yupeng Liu , Scott Stern
Reprint of “The Startup Cartography Project: Measuring and mapping entrepreneurial ecosystems”
Research Policy , volume 51 , issue 9 , p. 104581 Posted: 2022
Crossref
RJ Andrews , Catherine Fazio , Jorge Guzman , Yupeng Liu , Scott Stern
The Startup Cartography Project: Measuring and mapping entrepreneurial ecosystems
Research Policy , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 104437 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Nihat Aktas , Marion Dupire-Declerck
Increased entry threat and merger activity
Finance , volume Vol. 36 , issue 1 , p. 75 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
894
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,934
RANK
61,117
21 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies