Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and the Formation of Share Market Prices Over Time: A Mathematical Institutional Economic Analysis Through Simulation and Experiment

Eastern Economic Association (EEA), 39th Annual Conference, NYC Computational Economics and Complexity Workshop, New York, 9-11 May 2013

8th Annual Workshop on the Economic Science with Heterogeneous Interacting Agents (WEHIA 2013), June 20-22, 2013, Reykjavik University, Iceland

Applied Economics, 2015

24 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2013 Last revised: 17 Mar 2015

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Date Written: January 20, 2013

Abstract

This paper develops an agent-based model to examine the emergent dynamic properties of share market price formation over time, with a view on financial market stability under alternative accounting regimes. In the model, individual heterogeneous investors interact with each other and with institutional devices which are an accounting system (related to the business firm) and a price system (related to the Share Exchange). These interactions provide mechanisms for transmission through which firm-specific (accounting signal) and market-driven (aggregate price) drivers can act. A baseline simulation analysis assesses the financial market stability under three alternative accounting designs, namely two kinds of historical cost accounting regime and one kind of fair value (mark-to-market) accounting regime. The former prove to better stabilize the financial system for market volatility and exuberance in perfectly balanced conditions between speculative and fundamentalist beliefs and intentions. An evolutionary analysis is then developed by varying the relative degree of speculative attitudes. Historical cost accounting regimes further prove to make the financial system more resilient to speculative waves occurring at inter-individual level. Baseline findings are further corroborated through experimental analysis in ten artificial financial systems. This mathematical institutional economic analysis has general implications for both designing accounting systems aimed at enhancing financial market stability and preventing procyclicality, and the study of accounting information process in the formation of share market prices over time.

Keywords: financial stability, financial resilience, accounting model, fair value, international accounting, market efficiency, market exuberance, market volatility, accounting procyclicality

JEL Classification: M40, D40, D47, G38, L22, C63, C99

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri, Accounting and the Formation of Share Market Prices Over Time: A Mathematical Institutional Economic Analysis Through Simulation and Experiment (January 20, 2013). Eastern Economic Association (EEA), 39th Annual Conference, NYC Computational Economics and Complexity Workshop, New York, 9-11 May 2013, 8th Annual Workshop on the Economic Science with Heterogeneous Interacting Agents (WEHIA 2013), June 20-22, 2013, Reykjavik University, Iceland, Applied Economics, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2205574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2205574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Robert N Anthony
Rethinking the rules of financial accounting. Examining the rules for proper reporting Posted: 2004
M Aoki , H Yoshikawa
Reconstructing Macroeconomics Posted: 2006
Crossref
Arnold Patricia , J
Global financial crisis: The challenge to accounting research
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 6-7 , p. 803 - 809 Posted: 2009-08
Mary E Barth , Wayne R Landsman
How Did Financial Reporting Contribute to the Financial Crisis
European Accounting Review Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,785
RANK
227,558
4 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An Economic Analysis of Fair Value: Accounting as a Vector of Crisis

By Vincent Bignon, Yuri Biondi, ...

Mathematical Institutional Economics

By Martin Shubik

Share Price Formation, Financial Instability and Accounting Design

By Yuri Biondi and Pierpaolo Giannoccolo

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies