Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tailoring the Logistic Distribution to Fit the Empirical Distribution of Financial Asset Returns

19 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2013

Valerio Potì

University College Dublin

Maria Grazia Zoia

Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan

Date Written: January 30, 2013

Abstract

Risk measures, including Value-at-Risk (VaR) and Conditional VaR (Expected Shortfall), turn out to be quite sensitive to the degree to which distributions are thick tailed and asymmetric. Lack of encoding information about asymmetry and leptokurtosis is a well-known drawback of the Gaussian law. This has led to a search for alternative distributions (Szegö (2004)). In this paper, we will tackle the issue of accounting for asymmetry, (possibly severe) excess kurtosis and dependence by following the alternative approach of adjusting bell-shaped distributions using orthogonal polynomials as shape adapters. Our focus will be on polynomial transformations of parent symmetric probability density functions to match the empirical moments of target distributions characterized by possibly substantial heavy-tails and asymmetry. We will demonstrate a simple but powerful novel result, i.e. that the function that achieves the transformation from a given parent to a target distribution, depends on both the orthogonal polynomials associated to the former and the moment-differentials between these two distributions. We will then apply this result to the modelling of heavy-tailed and skewed distributions of financial asset returns.

Keywords: Orthogonal Polynomials vs. Moments, Kurtosis, Asymmetry, Between-squares Dependence

JEL Classification: C45, E10

Suggested Citation:

Potì, Valerio and Zoia, Maria Grazia, Tailoring the Logistic Distribution to Fit the Empirical Distribution of Financial Asset Returns (January 30, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2212470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
the associated α and β estimates and, in the last three columns, the parameters (with standard errors in square brackets) of the Student-t and Skew-t distributions (where d.f. denotes degrees of freedom) that best fit the data and estimated by Maximum Likelihood. The sample period is 1985-2012. The securities are: the S&P500 and Nasdaq Composite stock market indices
The table reports descriptive statistics on the returns on the securities in our sample (denoted by the code associated to the security in the FRED database
Mario Faliva , Maria Grazia Zoia , Valerio Potì
Tailoring Density Functions via Orthogonal Polynomials
Pages: 20 Posted: 6 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A R Gallant , G Tauchen
Seminonparametric estimation of conditionally constrained heterogeneous processes: asset pricing applications
Econometrica , volume 57 , p. 1091 - 1120 Posted: 1989
Crossref
A R Gallant , Tauchen
A Nonparametric Approach to Nonlinear Time Series Analysis: Estimation and Simulation
New Directions in Time Series Analysis, Part II , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,420
RANK
505,214
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies