Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GMM-Based Tests of Efficient Market Learning and an Application to Testing for a Small Firm Effect in Equity Pricing

38 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2013 Last revised: 15 Dec 2013

Valerio Potì

University College Dublin

Akhtar R. Siddique

Government of the United States of America - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)

Date Written: October 12, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, we extend Bossaerts’ (2004) analysis of the implications of the efficient learning market hypothesis (ELM) for asset prices by reformulating it in a GMM setting. Our representation is more amenable to widespread application and allows the econometrician, in testing ELM, to make use of the full range of specification tests that have been developed by the empirical literature in the context of tests of the more restrictive Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH). We apply this framework to test for efficient learning in the pricing of small capitalization stocks. We find evidence of mispricing of small stocks but we cannot rule out that, in spite of possibly incorrect priors about the future payoffs of small firms, the market efficiently processes information as it becomes available over time. That is, our evidence contradicts the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) but it is not incompatible with efficient learning in the manner of Bossaerts (2004).

Keywords: Asset Pricing, GMM, Learning, Size Effect

JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

Potì, Valerio and Siddique, Akhtar R., GMM-Based Tests of Efficient Market Learning and an Application to Testing for a Small Firm Effect in Equity Pricing (October 12, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2212482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R F Banz
The relationship between return and market value of common stocks
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 9 , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 1981
Crossref
K Back , D P Brown
Implied Probabilities in GMM Estimators
Econometrica , volume 61 , p. 971 - 75 Posted: 1993
Crossref
P Bossaerts
Filtering Returns for Unspecified Biases in Priors when Testing Asset Pricing Theory
Review of Economic Studies , volume 71 , p. 63 - 86 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E Fama , K French
The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 427 - 465 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,349
RANK
614,231
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Anomalies and Market Efficiency

By G. William Schwert

Anomalies and Market Efficiency

By G. William Schwert

Evidence on the Speed of Convergence to Market Efficiency

By Tarun Chordia, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies