Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boiling the Frog Optimally: An Experiment on Survivor Curve Shapes and Internet Revenue

25 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2013 Last revised: 20 May 2014

Christina Aperjis

Hewlett-Packard Enterprise - Social Computing Lab

Ciril Bosch-Rosa

Technische Universität Berlin

Daniel Friedman

University of California, Santa Cruz - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Bernardo A. Huberman

CableLabs

Date Written: May 19, 2014

Abstract

When should a necessary inconvenience be introduced gradually, and when should it be imposed all at once? The question is crucial to web content providers, who in order to generate revenue must sooner or later introduce advertisements, subscription fees, or other inconveniences. Assuming that eventually people fully adapt to changes, the answer depends only on the shape of the survivor curve S(x), which represents the fraction of a user population willing to tolerate inconveniences of size x (Aperjis and Huberman 2011).

We report a new laboratory experiment that, for the first time, estimates the shape of survivor curves in several different settings. We engage laboratory subjects in a series of six desirable activities, e.g., playing a video game, viewing a chosen video clip, or earning money by answering questions. For each activity we introduce a chosen level x 2 [xmin; xmax] of a particular inconvenience, and each subject chooses whether to tolerate the inconvenience or to switch to a bland activity for the remaining time.

Our key finding is that, in general, the survivor curve is log-convex. Theory suggests therefore that introducing inconveniences all at once will generally be more profitable for web content providers.

Keywords: Internet monetization, online advertising, pricing, reference points, adaptation, laboratory experiment

Suggested Citation:

Aperjis, Christina and Bosch-Rosa, Ciril and Friedman, Daniel and Huberman, Bernardo A., Boiling the Frog Optimally: An Experiment on Survivor Curve Shapes and Internet Revenue (May 19, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2215403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2215403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Johannes Abeler , Armin Falk , Lorenz Goette , David Human
Reference points and eort provision
The American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 2 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Christina Aperjis , Bernardo A Huberman
Adaptation and the provider's dilemma. Available at SSRN 1672820 Posted: 2011
Christina Aperjis , Bernardo A Huberman
Introducing revenue-generating features. Patent. US 8271312 Posted: 2012
Dan Ariely
Combining experiences over time: The eects of duration, intensity changes, and online measurements on retrospective pain evaluations
Journal of Behavioral Decision Making , volume 11 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,841
RANK
384,900
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Marketing Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies