Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Earnings Manipulation and the Cost of Capital: Does Accounting Matter in the Aggregate?

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

23 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2013 Last revised: 21 Feb 2013

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: February 15, 2013

Abstract

This article develops further results on earnings management and the cost of capital, which complement Strobl (Journal of Accounting Research, forth.). Within a simplified version of the model, I illustrate the existing linkage between earning management activities and firms' cost of capital, even if the individual fraud risk is diversifiable. I identify plausible conditions under which the cost of capital will increase with more earnings management and show that the level of managerial ownership and enforcement are important testable determinants of this association. Lastly, I argue that, in the absence of an observable aggregate wealth portfolio, whether accounting quality is informative on firms' beta or a separate risk factor are observationally equivalent propositions. I then show that an aggregate accounting quality measure would provide information about expected returns.

Keywords: cost of capital, earnings management, accounting, risk, return

JEL Classification: G12, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy, On Earnings Manipulation and the Cost of Capital: Does Accounting Matter in the Aggregate? (February 15, 2013). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2218515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2218515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Anne Beyer
Conservatism and Aggregation: The Effect on Cost of Equity Capital and the Efficiency of Debt Contracts
Pages: 51 Posted: 26 Mar 2012 Last revised: 3 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Bushman , S Dutta , J Hughes , R Indjejikian
Earnings announcements and market depth*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 68 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Judson Caskey , John S. Hughes , Jun Liu
Strategic Informed Trades, Diversification, and Expected Returns
Accounting Review, Forthcoming Posted: 27 Feb 2012 Last revised: 7 Jan 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Cheynel
A theory of voluntary disclosure and cost of capital
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,427
RANK
37,903
4 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies