Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online Appendix for: Quality of PIN Estimates and the PIN-Return Relationship

Journal of Banking and Finance 43 (2014), pp 137-149

10 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2013 Last revised: 28 Apr 2014

Yuxing Yan

Independent

Shaojun Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: February 28, 2014

Abstract

This document is the Online Appendix to "Quality of PIN Estimates and the PIN-Return Relationship" by Yuxing Yan and Shaojun Zhang in Journal of Banking and Finance 43 (2014), pp 137-149. It includes two tables and four figures. The first table compares the two sets of quarterly PIN estimates that we obtain by using two methods to classify buyer-initiated and seller-initiated trades. One is the Lee and Ready (1991) algorithm with 5-second adjustment for delay in reported trade time. The other is the Ellis, Michaely and O’Hara (2000) algorithm without time adjustment. The second table compares the two sets of PIN estimates for actively and inactively traded stocks, separately. We divide stocks into three groups based on the average daily number of trades in each quarter. Stocks in the top group are actively traded, while stocks in the bottom group are inactively traded. The four figures pertain to the simulations we conduct to examine the impact of trade misclassification on the estimation of PIN.

The abstract "Quality of PIN Estimates and the PIN-Return Relationship" to which these Appendices apply is available at the following URL: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2430033

Keywords: Probability of informed trading, PIN-return relationship, Quality of PIN estimates

JEL Classification: C13, C61, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Yan, Yuxing and Zhang, Shaojun, Online Appendix for: Quality of PIN Estimates and the PIN-Return Relationship (February 28, 2014). Journal of Banking and Finance 43 (2014), pp 137-149, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2218964 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2218964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,491
RANK
467,197
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An Improved Estimation Method and Empirical Properties of the Probability of Informed Trading

By Yuxing Yan and Shaojun Zhang

A Computing Bias in Estimating the Probability of Informed Trading - Supplement

By Hsiou-wei William Lin and Wen-chyan Ke

A New Method to Estimate PIN (Probability of Informed Trading)

By Yuxing Yan

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies