Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond the CFO and Accrual Decisions: An Examination of Individual Audit Committee Chairs, CEOS, and CFOs and Their Influence on Reporting and Operating Decisions

53 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2013

Bradley Lawson

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - School of Accounting

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 15, 2012

Abstract

We examine whether managers besides the CFO have 'styles' that affect firms’ reporting and operating decisions. Following recent studies, we develop a dataset of individual audit committee chairs, CEOs, and CFOs, that tracks their movements across firms and over time. Although audit committee chairs serve a monitoring role, research suggests that each of these management groups could exert their individual 'styles' on firms’ reporting and operating decisions. We find that each of these groups significantly affect firms’ accrual- and real activities-based decisions, even when controlling for the effect of the other groups. Also, we find the influence of these individuals is not impacted by their managerial discretion or job demands. Last, we provide evidence that certain observable demographic measures explain some of the managers’ decisions. These results add to the literature because they suggest that managers besides the CFO can significantly influence reporting and operating decisions, and the influence of these managers extends beyond accounting-based techniques to include non-accounting-based decisions.

Keywords: managerial style, audit committee chair, CEO, CFO, upper echelon

JEL Classification: G34, M12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lawson, Bradley and Omer, Thomas C., Beyond the CFO and Accrual Decisions: An Examination of Individual Audit Committee Chairs, CEOS, and CFOs and Their Influence on Reporting and Operating Decisions (September 15, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2218484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2218484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and restatements. Auditing-a Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing-a Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's My Style? The Influence of Top Managers on Voluntary Corporate Financial Disclosure
Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,650
RANK
174,532
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies