Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information, Uncertainty and the Cost of Capitalin a Mean-Variance Efficient Market

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

19 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2013 Last revised: 15 Jan 2015

David Johnstone

University of Sydney Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: March 10, 2013

Abstract

Before information φ arrives, market observers must be uncertain whether the stock price conditioned on φ will be higher or lower than the current price. Otherwise there is an obvious arbitrage opportunity. By assuming this minimal condition of efficient markets, it is shown under the mean-variance CAPM that information which makes the future value of a firm more certain, in the sense that its perceived covariance with the market is reduced towards zero, can lead to a higher expected return on that asset. A less intuitive connotation is that it is theoretically possible that the required return on the stock will necessarily fall after observing signal φ, or (in other circumstances) that it will necessarily rise. In general, information that allows better discrimination between firms leads some firms to have higher costs of capital and other firms to have lower costs of capital. Less obviously, better discrimination between firms can induce a higher average cost of capital across the market.

Keywords: Information, uncertainty, efficient markets, risk premium, financial disclosure, accounting information, cost of capital

JEL Classification: D80, D81, G11, G14

Suggested Citation:

Johnstone, David, Information, Uncertainty and the Cost of Capitalin a Mean-Variance Efficient Market (March 10, 2013). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2220544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2220544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
M E Bath , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The Relevance of the Value-Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
L Blume , D Easley
If You're So Smart, Why Aren't You Rich? Belief Selection in Complete and Incomplete Markets
Econometrica , volume 74 , p. 929 - 966 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P O Christensen , L E De La Rosa , G A Feltham
Information and the Cost of Capital: An Ex Ante Perspective
Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 817 - 848 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E F Fama
Foundations of Finance Posted: 1976
Load more
2 Citations
David Johnstone
A Bayesian Understanding of Information Uncertainty and the Cost of Capital
36 Pages · Posted: 12 Mar 2013 · Downloads: 324
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Belen Blanco , Juan M. Garcia Lara , Josep A. Tribo
Segment Disclosure and Cost of Capital
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3-4 , p. 367 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,488
RANK
334,632
2 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies