Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Parameter Heterogeneity in the Market-Accounting Relation

44 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2013

Michael Falta

University of Otago

Roger J. Willett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: August 28, 2011

Abstract

In this paper firm parameter heterogeneity in cross section regression analysis in capital market research (CMR) is investigated. Using panel data for 30 large US firms over the period 1955 to 2004, a well-specified common form of dynamic model for each firm is identified. Average parameter estimates from these models are compared to average parameter estimates from 50 annual cross section models having the same functional form. The dynamic parameters are mostly stable over time but variation in individual firm parameters is apparent. Analysis shows that even well-specified annual cross section models using large samples of data cannot guarantee valid and reliable estimates of the parameters of interest. Firm-level dynamic analysis is necessary to avoid this problem.

We show how a fixed effects panel analysis of the sample data can be used to approximate the average data generating process of the firms in the sample. Although the impact of accounting variables is slight, compared to the autoregressive component in market value, it is systematic. There is weak evidence of cointegration between market and accounting data in most firms in the sample. Consequently, it is possible to construct the cross section analogue of the dynamic error correction model. Book value of net assets is used to illustrate the role of accounting variables. Other variables could be used, but single variable, multiplicative noise models perform best when judged by joint explanatory power and forecast ability criteria.

Keywords: Cross section modelling, misspecification, heterogeneity, dynamic modelling, long-run effect, fundamentals

JEL Classification: C31, C32, C33, E40

Suggested Citation:

Falta, Michael and Willett, Roger J., Parameter Heterogeneity in the Market-Accounting Relation (August 28, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2222999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2222999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
D Alexander , M Falta , R J Willett
Using forecasting criteria to identify value relevance in the relationship between accounting numbers and market value
Abacus , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 316 - 363 Posted: 2012-09
Crossref
Jan Bartholdy , Paula Peare , Roger J. Willett
A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis of the Relationship between Market and Book Values
Pages: 32 Posted: 11 Jan 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J L Callen , M Morel
Linear accounting valuation when abnormal earnings are AR(2)
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 191 - 204 Posted: 2001
J Y Campbell , R J Shiller
Cointegration and tests of present value models
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 97 , p. 1062 - 1088 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,886
RANK
653,768
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Truth and Robustness in Cross-Country Growth Regressions

By Kevin D. Hoover and Stephen J. Perez

The Properties of Automatic Gets Modelling

By David F. Hendry and Martin Krolzig

Selecting a Regression Saturated by Indicators

By Soren Johansen, David F. Hendry, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies