Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Artificial Neural Networks Analysis for Small Enterprise Default Prediction Modeling: Statistical Evidence from Italian Firms

2009 Oxford Business & Economics Conference Proceedings. Oxford, UK, 24-26 June 2009, Vol. 1, pp. 1-26, Association for Business & Economics Research (ABER), ISBN: 9780974211411

Posted: 8 Mar 2013

Francesco Ciampi

University of Florence - Department of Business Administration

Carlo Vallini

Independent

Niccolo Gordini

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS)

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

A large number of empirical studies have used univariate and multivariate statistical methods when examining the effectiveness of appropriately selected corporation data in constructing company default prediction models. Having accurate evaluation methods has become increasingly important since the New Basel Capital Accord linked the banks’ capital requirements to the banks’ models for company default prediction. Solutions are now urgently needed in view of the current global financial crisis which is having serious effects on the overall word economic system and is making it extremely difficult for banks to grant credit, and for firms to obtain it.

The empirical studies mentioned mostly rely on Multivariate Discriminant Analysis (MDA) and Logistic Regression Analysis (LRA); and they mainly focus on large and medium-sized enterprises.

Our study applies Artificial Neural Network Analysis (ANNA) to a sample of over 6,000 small Italian firms, with a view to developing and testing default prediction models based on an appropriately selected set of financial-economic ratios.

Our results show that: i) when compared to traditional statistical methods (MDA and LRA), ANNA can make a better contribution to decision support systems for Small Enterprise (SE) credit-risk evaluation; and ii) when the decisional function is separately calculated according to size, geographical area and business sector, ANNA prediction accuracy is markedly higher for the smallest-sized firms and for firms operating in Central Italy.

Keywords: Small Enterprises, Artificial Neural Networks, Default Prediction Models, Scoring, Rating, Financial Ratios

Suggested Citation:

Ciampi, Francesco and Vallini, Carlo and Gordini, Niccolo, Using Artificial Neural Networks Analysis for Small Enterprise Default Prediction Modeling: Statistical Evidence from Italian Firms (2009). 2009 Oxford Business & Economics Conference Proceedings. Oxford, UK, 24-26 June 2009, Vol. 1, pp. 1-26, Association for Business & Economics Research (ABER), ISBN: 9780974211411, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2229941
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,865
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management & Statistics Research Paper Series

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies