Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Empirically Capturing 'Other Information'

43 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2013

Thanamas Kungwal

Keele University - Keele Management School

Yun Shen

University of Nottingham, Ningbo

Andrew W. Stark

Alliance Manchester Business School, University of Manchester

Date Written: March 12, 2013

Abstract

In this study, we examine the performance of two different measures of 'other information' found in the accounting literature. One is based upon last year’s valuation error, once the impact of accounting variables on value is controlled for. The other is based upon using one-year-ahead consensus analyst forecasts. We consider both measures from a theoretical perspective and find that they suffer from different problems which make it difficult to rank them in the absence of empirical evidence. We adopt the criterion of addition to explanatory power to evaluate the measures empirically. The two measures are also likely to impose (possibly different) sample selection biases, as well, in terms of both the numbers of firm-years lost and the characteristics of the observations data, because of their different requirements for additional data.

In terms of observations lost and contribution to explanatory power, the use of last year’s valuation error is far superior to the use of the one-year-ahead valuation error. Further, our results suggest that the two measures impose sample selection and the selection biases are different between the two measures. Nonetheless, the measures do appear to contain complementary information such that they can both contribute to the explanation of market value in tandem. To do so, however, requires losing a majority of the available observations. Whether the loss of observations is compensated for by the additional statistical power provided by incorporating more significant explanatory variables, combined with any attendant sample selection bias, can only be decided in a particular context.

Keywords: Accounting-based corporate valuation model, Ohlson model, other information

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kungwal, Thanamas and Shen, Yun and Stark, Andrew W., On Empirically Capturing 'Other Information' (March 12, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2231852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2231852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
S Akbar , S Z A Shah , A W Stark
The value relevance of cash flows, current accruals and non-current accruals in the UK
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 20 , p. 311 - 319 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Akbar , A W Stark
Discussion of Scale and the scale effect in market based accounting research
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 30 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 57 - 72 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Akbar , A W Stark
Deflators, net shareholder cash flows, dividends, capital contributions and estimated models of corporate valuation
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 30 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1211 - 1233 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , J R M Hand , W R Landsman
Accruals, accountingbased valuation models, and the prediction of equity values
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 311 - 345 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,508
RANK
601,090
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies