Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting News in Aggregate Accounting Earnings: Implications for Stock Market Valuation

Review of Accounting Studies, March 2014

45 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2013 Last revised: 11 Apr 2014

Panos N. Patatoukas

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: January 17, 2013

Abstract

How much news is there in aggregate accounting earnings? I provide evidence that earnings changes at the stock market level are correlated with new information about not only expected future cash flows but also discount rates. A comprehensive investigation of the link to discount rates reveals that aggregate earnings changes are tied to news about all components of the expected future stock market return, i.e., the real riskless rate, expected inflation, and the expected equity risk premium. Over the sample period studied, cash flow news and discount rate news in aggregate earnings changes covary positively and have offsetting impacts on stock market prices. As a result, stock market prices appear to be insensitive to aggregate earnings changes. The findings highlight the importance of separating cash flow news from discount rate news when evaluating the information content of accounting earnings at the stock market level. Overall, my study sheds new light on the informativeness and relevance of accounting earnings for valuation at the stock market level.

Keywords: Accounting earnings, Aggregate economy, Cash flow news, Discount rate news, Stock market valuation

JEL Classification: M41, E10, G10

Suggested Citation:

Patatoukas, Panos N., Detecting News in Aggregate Accounting Earnings: Implications for Stock Market Valuation (January 17, 2013). Review of Accounting Studies, March 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2232374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
W R Gebhardt , C M C Lee , B Swaminathan
Toward an implied cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 176 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Goyal , P Santa-Clara
Idiosyncratic risk matters
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 975 - 1007 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P Hecht , T Vuolteenaho
Explaining returns with cash flow proxies
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 159 - 194 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S P Kothari , J W Lewellen , J B Warner
Stock returns, aggregate earnings surprises and behavioral finance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 537 - 568 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,344
RANK
201,467
5 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies