Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dialogism in Corporate Social Responsibility Communications: Conceptualising Verbal Interaction Between Organisations and Their Audiences

Journal of Business Ethics, 115(4): 665-679 (2013).

30 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2013 Last revised: 5 May 2014

Niamh M. Brennan

University College Dublin

Doris M. Merkl-Davies

Bangor University

Annika Beelitz

Bangor University

Date Written: March 21, 2013

Abstract

We conceptualise CSR communication as a process of reciprocal influence between organisations and their audiences. We use an illustrative case study in the form of a conflict between firms and a powerful stakeholder which is played out in a series of 20 press releases over a two-month period. We develop a framework of analysis based on insights from linguistics which focuses on three aspects of dialogism, namely (i) turn-taking (co-operating in a conversation by responding to the other party), (ii) inter-party moves (e.g., denial, apology, excuse), and (iii) intertextuality (the intensity and quality of verbal interaction between the parties involved in the conflict). We address the question: (i) What is the nature and type of verbal interactions between the parties? We first examine (a) whether the parties verbally interact and then (b) whether the parties listen to each other.

We find evidence of dialogism suggesting that CSR communication is an interactive process which has to be understood as a function of the power relations between a firm and a specific stakeholder. We also find evidence of intertextuality in the press releases by the six firms which engage in verbal interaction with the stakeholder. We interpret this as linguistic evidence of isomorphic processes relating to CSR practices resulting from the pressure exerted by a powerful stakeholder. The lack of response by ten firms that fail to issue press releases suggests a strategy of ‘watch-and-wait’ with respect to the outcome of the conflict.

Keywords: Dialogism, Interaction, Intertextuality, CSR communication

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Brennan, Niamh M. and Merkl-Davies, Doris M. and Beelitz, Annika, Dialogism in Corporate Social Responsibility Communications: Conceptualising Verbal Interaction Between Organisations and Their Audiences (March 21, 2013). Journal of Business Ethics, 115(4): 665-679 (2013)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2237428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
M W Allen , R H Caillouet
Legitimation endeavors: Impression management strategies used by an organisation in crisis
Communication Monographs , volume 61 , p. 44 - 62 Posted: 1994
Crossref
B Ashforth , B Gibbs
The double-edged sword of organisational legitimation
Organisation Science , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 194 Posted: 1990
Crossref
M M Bakhtin
Problems of Dostoevsky's Poetics Posted: 1973
M M Bakhtin
The Dialogic Imagination: Four Essays by M. M. Bakhtin , p. 259 - 422 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
RANK
386,825
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies