Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Return-Volatility Relationship: Insights from Linear and Non-Linear Quantile Regression

25 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2013

David E. Allen

School of Mathematics and Statistics, The University of Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN); Department of Finance; School of Business and Law, Edith Cowan University

Abhay Kumar Singh

Edith Cowan University

Robert J. Powell

Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Michael McAleer

Erasmus University Rotterdam - Erasmus School of Economics, Econometric Institute; Tinbergen Institute; University of Tokyo - Centre for International Research on the Japanese Economy (CIRJE), Faculty of Economics

James W. Taylor

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Lyn C. Thomas

University of Southampton - School of Management

Date Written: April 18, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine the asymmetric relationship between price and implied volatility and the associated extreme quantile dependence using linear and non linear quantile regression approach. Our goal in this paper is to demonstrate that the relationship between the volatility and market return as quantified by Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regression is not uniform across the distribution of the volatility-price return pairs using quantile regressions. We examine the bivariate relationship of six volatility-return pairs, viz. CBOE-VIX and S&P-500, FTSE-100 Volatility and FTSE-100, NASDAQ-100 Volatility (VXN) and NASDAQ, DAX Volatility (VDAX) and DAX-30, CAC Volatility (VCAC) and CAC-40 and STOXX Volatility (VSTOXX) and STOXX. The assumption of a normal distribution in the return series is not appropriate when the distribution is skewed and hence OLS does not capture the complete picture of the relationship. Quantile regression on the other hand can be set up with various loss functions, both parametric and non-parametric (linear case) and can be evaluated with skewed marginal based copulas (for the non linear case). Which is helpful in evaluating the non-normal and non-linear nature of the relationship between price and volatility. In the empirical analysis we compare the results from linear quantile regression (LQR) and copula based non linear quantile regression known as copula quantile regression (CQR). The discussion of the properties of the volatility series and empirical findings in this paper have significance for portfolio optimization, hedging strategies, trading strategies and risk management in general.

Keywords: Return-Volatility relationship, quantile regression, copula, copula quantile regression, volatility index, tail dependence

Suggested Citation:

Allen, David Edmund and Singh, Abhay Kumar and Powell, Robert J. and McAleer, Michael and Taylor, James W. and Thomas, Lyn C., Return-Volatility Relationship: Insights from Linear and Non-Linear Quantile Regression (April 18, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2253685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2253685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
D Allen , A K Singh , R J Powell
Asset Pricing, the Fama-French factor Model and the Implications of Quantile Regression Analysis
Financial Econometrics Modeling: Market Microstructure, Factor Models and Financial Risk Measures Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Ang , J Chen
Asymmetric Correlations of Equity Portfolios
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 443 - 494 Posted: 2002
Crossref
I U Badshah
Quantile Regression Analysis of the Asymmetric Return-Volatility Relation
Journal of Futures Markets Posted: 2012
Crossref
Michelle L. Barnes , Anthony (Tony) W. Hughes
A Quantile Regression Analysis of the Cross Section of Stock Market Returns
Pages: 36 Posted: 30 Jun 2004 Last revised: 22 Sep 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
5 Citations
Kalugala Vidanalage Aruna Shantha
The evolution of herd behavior: Will herding disappear over time?
Studies in Economics and Finance , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 637 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Alexander Kreuzer , Claudia Czado
Efficient Bayesian Inference for Nonlinear State Space Models With Univariate Autoregressive State Equation
Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 523 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Stelios Bekiros , Mouna Jlassi , Brian Lucey , Kamel Naoui , Gazi Salah Uddin
Herding behavior, market sentiment and volatility: Will the bubble resume?
The North American Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 42 , p. 107 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Massaporn Cheuathonghua , Chaiyuth Padungsaksawasdi
Do U.S. investors worry about fear in international equity markets? Empirical evidence on dynamic panel data
International Journal of Finance & Economics Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
583
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,617
RANK
107,061
5 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Copula: A Primer for Fund Managers

By Wing Cheung

Generalised Factor View Blending: Augmented Black-Litterman in Non-Normal Financial Markets with Non-Linear Instruments

By Wing Cheung

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies