Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Significant are the Differences in Financial Data Provided by Key Data Sources? A Comparison of XBRL, Compustat, Yahoo! Finance, and Google Finance

Journal of Information Systems (2020) 34 (3): 47–75 https://doi.org/10.2308/isys-52618

Posted: 19 Apr 2013 Last revised: 2 Dec 2021

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Won Gyun No

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: October 16, 2019

Abstract

We compare the financial statement data (excluding footnotes) reported by 105 randomly selected firms in their 10-K filings with data contained in XBRL filings and data reported by three data aggregators/distributors: Compustat, Google Finance, and Yahoo! Finance. We find that 48 percent to 63.2 percent of the 10-K financial statement items available in XBRL filings are not available from the aggregators/distributors. However, aggregator/ distributor-provided data contain many financial items that are not in the official 10-K or XBRL filings but could be useful to users. For items included both in XBRL and by aggregators/distributors, all but 0.01 percent of the XBRL data amounts agree with the 10-K filings, whereas 6.5 percent to 7.7 percent of the amounts provided by aggregators/ distributors do not, depending on the aggregator/distributor. Most differences are material, and the differences in items used in bankruptcy prediction and earnings quality models result in significant differences in the model results.

Keywords: XBRL, Interactive data quality, data aggregators, Compustat, Google Finance, Yahoo! Finance

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and No, Won Gyun, How Significant are the Differences in Financial Data Provided by Key Data Sources? A Comparison of XBRL, Compustat, Yahoo! Finance, and Google Finance (October 16, 2019). Journal of Information Systems (2020) 34 (3): 47–75 https://doi.org/10.2308/isys-52618, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2253638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2253638
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,743
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

SEC's XBRL Voluntary Program on Edgar: The Case for Quality Assurance

By J. Efrim Boritz and Won Gyun No

A Comparison of XBRL Filings to Corporate 10-Ks - Evidence from the Voluntary Filing Program

By Jon W. Bartley, Y. Al Chen, ...

Quality of Data Standards: Empirical Findings from XBRL

By Hongwei (harry) Zhu and Liuliu Fu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies