Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Structural-Break Models under Mis-specification: Implications for Forecasting

47 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2013 Last revised: 20 Jun 2015

Bonsoo Koo

Monash Business School

Myung Hwan Seo

Seoul National University - School of Economics

Date Written: April 18, 2013

Abstract

This paper revisits the least squares estimator of the linear regression with a structural break. We view the model as an approximation to the true data generating process whose exact nature is unknown but perhaps changing over time either continuously or with some jumps. This view is widely held in the forecasting literature and under this view, the time series dependence property of all the observed variables is unstable as well. We establish that the rate of convergence of the estimator to a properly defined limit is much slower than the standard super consistent rate, even slower than the square root of the sample size T and as slow as the cube root of T. We also provide an asymptotic distribution of the estimator and that of the Gaussian quasi likelihood ratio statistic for a certain class of true data generating process. We relate our finding to current forecast combination methods and bagging and propose a new averaging scheme. The performance of various contemporary forecasting methods is compared to ours using a number of macroeconomic data.

Keywords: structural break, forecasting, mis-specification, cube-root asymptotics, bagging

JEL Classification: C13, C22, C53

Suggested Citation:

Koo, Bonsoo and Seo, Myung Hwan, Structural-Break Models under Mis-specification: Implications for Forecasting (April 18, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2253679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2253679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Abrevaya , J Huang
On the Bootstrap of the Maximum Score Estimator
Econometrica , volume 73 , p. 1175 - 1204 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T W Andrews
Laws of Large Numbers for Dependent Non-identically Distributed Random Variables
Econometric Theory , volume 4 , p. 458 - 467 Posted: 1988
Crossref
T W Andrews
Tests for parameter instability and structural change with unknown change point
Econometrica , volume 61 , p. 821 - 856 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J Bai
Estimation of a change point in multiple regression models
Review of Economic and Statistics , volume 79 , p. 551 - 563 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,517
RANK
322,813
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Real-Time Inflation Forecasting in a Changing World

By Jan J. Groen, Richard Paap, ...

Bayesian Multivariate Time Series Methods for Empirical Macroeconomics

By Gary Koop and Dimitris Korobilis

Comparing and Evaluating Bayesian Predictive Distributions of Asset Returns

By John Geweke and Gianni Amisano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies