Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Likelihood-Based Confidence Sets for the Timing of Structural Breaks

UNSW Australian School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-12

49 Pages Posted: 17 May 2013 Last revised: 21 May 2013

Yunjong Eo

Department of Economics, Korea University

James Morley

University of Sydney - School of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 30, 2013

Abstract

We propose the use of likelihood-based confidence sets for the timing of structural breaks in parameters from time series regression models. The confidence sets are valid for the broad setting of a system of multivariate linear regression equations under fairly general assumptions about the error and regressors and allowing for multiple breaks in mean and variance parameters. In our asymptotic analysis, we determine the critical values for a likelihood ratio test of a break date and the expected length of a likelihood-based confidence set constructed by inverting the likelihood ratio test. Notably, the likelihood-based confidence set is considerably shorter than for other methods employed in the literature. Monte Carlo analysis confirms better performance than other methods in terms of length and coverage accuracy in finite samples, including when the magnitude of breaks is small. An application to postwar U.S. real GDP and consumption leads to a much tighter 95% confidence set for the timing of the “Great Moderation” in the mid-1980s than previously found. Furthermore, when taking cointegration between output and consumption into account, confidence sets for structural break dates are even more precise and suggest a sudden “productivity growth slowdown” in the early 1970s and an additional large, abrupt decline in long-run growth in the mid-1990s.

Keywords: Inverted Likelihood Ratio Confidence Sets, Multiple Breaks, Great Moderation, Productivity Growth Slowdown

JEL Classification: C22, C32, E20

Suggested Citation:

Eo, Yunjong and Morley, James, Likelihood-Based Confidence Sets for the Timing of Structural Breaks (March 30, 2013). UNSW Australian School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2264009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2264009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
D W K Andrews
Tests for Parameter Instability and Structural Change with Unknown Change Point
Econometrica , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 821 - 56 Posted: 1993
Crossref
D W K Andrews , J C Monahan
An Improved Heteroskedasticity and Autocorrelation Consistent Covariance Matrix Estimator
Econometrica , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 953 - 66 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Bai
Vector Autoregressive Models with Structural Changes in Regression Coefficients and in Variance-Covariance Matrices
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 301 - 336 Posted: 1997
J Bai , R L Lumsdaine , J H Stock
Testing for and Dating Common Breaks in Multivariate Time Series
Review of Economic Studies , volume 65 , issue 3 , p. 395 - 432 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,129
RANK
206,108
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies