Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Visually-Weighted Regression

10 Pages Posted: 17 May 2013

Solomon Hsiang

University of California, Berkeley; National Bureau of Economic Research

Date Written: May 2013

Abstract

Uncertainty in regression can be efficiently and effectively communicated using the visual properties of statistical objects in a regression display. Altering the "visual weight" of lines and shapes to depict the quality of information represented clearly communicates statistical confidence, even when readers are unfamiliar with the formal and abstract definitions of statistical uncertainty. Here we present examples where the color saturation, contrast of regression lines, and confidence intervals are parametrized by local measures of an estimate's variance. The results are simple, visually intuitive, and graphically compact displays of statistical uncertainty. This approach is generalizable to almost all forms of regression.

Keywords: regression, data visualization, statistics

JEL Classification: C10, C88

Suggested Citation:

Hsiang, Solomon, Visually-Weighted Regression (May 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2265501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2265501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
R Arnheim
Art and Visual Perception: A Psychology of the Creative Eye Posted: 1954
W S Cleveland , R Mcgill
Graphical perception and graphical methods for analyzing scientific data
Science , volume 229 , issue 4716 , p. 828 - 833 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A Gelman , A Unwin
Visualization, graphics, and statistics. Statistical Computing and Graphics Posted: 2011
E A Nadaraya
On estimating regression
Theory of Probability and Its Applications , volume 9 , p. 141 - 142 Posted: 1964
Crossref
Load more
16 Citations
Stephen A. Wood , Mark A. Bradford , Jack A. Gilbert , Krista L. McGuire , Cheryl A. Palm , Katherine L. Tully , Jizhong Zhou , Shahid Naeem , Peter Manning
Agricultural intensification and the functional capacity of soil microbes on smallholder African farms
Journal of Applied Ecology , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 744 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Marshall Burke , Solomon M. Hsiang , Edward Miguel
Global non-linear effect of temperature on economic production
Nature , volume 527 , issue 7577 , p. 235 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Stelios Michalopoulos , Alireza Naghavi , Giovanni Prarolo
Trade and Geography in the Spread of Islam
The Economic Journal , volume 128 , issue 616 , p. 3210 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Christopher Gandrud , Cassandra Grafström
Inflated Expectations: How Government Partisanship Shapes Monetary Policy Bureaucrats’ Inflation Forecasts
Political Science Research and Methods , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 353 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
858
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,427
RANK
64,721
16 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Do Democracies Exhibit Stronger Environmental Commitment? A Cross-Country Analysis

By Eric Neumayer

Does Trade Openness Promote Multilateral Environmental Cooperation?

By Eric Neumayer

Market Access, Competitiveness, and Harmonization: Environmental Protection in Regional Trade Agreements

By Daniel C. Esty and Damien Geradin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies