Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Validação do Teste Need For Cognition: Um Estudo em Contabilidade Comportamental (Validation of the Test Need for Cognition: A Study in Behavioral Accounting)

Psicologia Ciência e Profissão, Vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 112-131, 2013

20 Pages Posted: 17 May 2013 Last revised: 28 Aug 2015

Raimundo Lima Filho

University of São Paulo (USP); University of Pernambuco (UPE)

Adriano Leal Bruni

Federal University of Bahia (UFBA)

Igor Menezes

Federal University of Bahia (UFBA)

Date Written: May 10, 2013

Abstract

Portuguese Abstract: Este estudo teve como objetivo validar a necessidade de escala de cognição (NFC) em contabilidade comportamental. Além disso, procuramos medir as possíveis correlações entre o nível de necessidade de cognição e a existência de vieses cognitivos nas decisões em informações contábeis e financeiras. Realizaram-se duas validações para realizar o processo de validação completa – critério e construto. A análise foi feita pelo exame de uma amostra composta por 128 alunos de graduação. A técnica estatística utilizada para a validação do teste foi uma análise fatorial por ele tem a capacidade de determinar o grau de influência de uma variável particular na explicação de um fator, e o regressão de processamento logística foi utilizado para a explicação dos valores possíveis, em função de valores conhecidos ou variáveis independentes. Os resultados da construção de validade mostraram a legitimidade da NFC como uma escala unidimensional excluindo três saídas de sua escala original, desde que a validade de critério dos resultados confirmou o impacto do nível de cognição em maximizar a ocorrência de heurística em decisões gerenciais.

English Abstract: This study aimed to validate the Need for Cognition scale (NFC) in behavioral accounting. In addition, we sought to measure the possible correlations between the level of need for cognition and the existence of cognitive biases in decisions in accounting and financial information. Two validations were performed to carry out the process of full validation – criterion and construct. The analysis was done by the examination of a sample comprised by 128 graduation students. The statistical technique used for the validation of this test was a factorial analysis for it has the ability to determine the degree of influence of a particular variable in the explanation of a factor, and the processing logistic regression was used for the explanation of possible values as a function of known values or independent variables. The results of the construct of validity showed the legitimacy of the NFC as a unidimensional scale excluding three outputs of its original scale, since the criterion validity of the results confirmed the impact of the level of cognition in maximizing the occurrence of heuristics in managerial decisions.

Note: Downloadable document is in Portuguese.

Suggested Citation:

Lima Filho, Raimundo and Lima Filho, Raimundo and Bruni, Adriano Leal and Menezes, Igor, Validação do Teste Need For Cognition: Um Estudo em Contabilidade Comportamental (Validation of the Test Need for Cognition: A Study in Behavioral Accounting) (May 10, 2013). Psicologia Ciência e Profissão, Vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 112-131, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2265980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
F Aranha , F Zambaldi
Análise Fatorial em Administração Posted: 2008
D Axsom , S Yates , S Chaiken
Audience response as a heuristic cue in persuasion
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 53 , p. 30 - 40 Posted: 1987
Crossref
J P Cacioppo , R E Petty
The need for cognition
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 116 - 131 Posted: 1982
Crossref
J T Cacioppo , R E Petty , C F Kao
The efficient assessment of need for cognition
Journal of Personality Assessment , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 306 - 307 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,125
RANK
508,348
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies