Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Correlated Effects Estimation of Heterogeneous Dynamic Panel Data Models with Weakly Exogenous Regressors

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4232

62 Pages Posted: 16 May 2013

Alexander Chudik

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas

M. Hashem Pesaran

University of Cambridge; University of Southern California - Department of Economics

Date Written: May 15, 2013

Abstract

This paper extends the Common Correlated Effects (CCE) approach developed by Pesaran (2006) to heterogeneous panel data models with lagged dependent variable and/or weakly ex-ogenous regressors. We show that the CCE mean group estimator continues to be valid but the following two conditions must be satisfied to deal with the dynamics: a sufficient number of lags of cross section averages must be included in individual equations of the panel, and the number of cross section averages must be at least as large as the number of unobserved common factors. We establish consistency rates, derive the asymptotic distribution, suggest using covariates to deal with the effects of multiple unobserved common factors, and consider jackknife and recursive de-meaning bias correction procedures to mitigate the small sample time series bias. Theoretical findings are accompanied by extensive Monte Carlo experiments, which show that the proposed estimators perform well so long as the time series dimension of the panel is sufficiently large.

Keywords: large panels, lagged dependent variable, cross sectional dependence, coefficient heterogeneity, estimation and inference, common correlated effects, unobserved common factors

JEL Classification: C310, C330

Suggested Citation:

Chudik, Alexander and Pesaran, M. Hashem, Common Correlated Effects Estimation of Heterogeneous Dynamic Panel Data Models with Weakly Exogenous Regressors (May 15, 2013). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4232, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2265296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2265296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
J Bai
Panel data models with interactive …xed e¤ects
Econometrica , volume 77 , p. 1229 - 1279 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Bai , S Ng
Determining the number of primitive shocks in factor models
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 25 , p. 52 - 60 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K N Berk
Consistent autoregressive spectral estimates
The Annals of Statistics , volume 2 , p. 489 - 502 Posted: 1974
Crossref
G S Bruno
Approximating the bias of the LSDV estimator for dynamic unbalanced panel data models
Economics Letters , volume 87 , p. 361 - 366 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
394
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,606
RANK
171,534
26 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies