Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing for Structural Breaks in Correlations: Does it Improve Value-at-Risk Forecasting?

Journal of Empirical Finance, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 17 May 2013 Last revised: 16 Mar 2015

Tobias Berens

zeb/rolfes.schierenbeck.associates; University TU Dortmund

Gregor N. F. Weiss

University of Leipzig - Faculty of Economics and Management Science

Dominik Wied

University of Cologne

Date Written: March 11, 2015

Abstract

In this paper, we compare the Constant Conditional Correlation (CCC) model to its dynamic counterpart, the Dynamic Conditional Correlation (DCC) model with respect to its accuracy for forecasting the Value-at-Risk of financial portfolios. Additionally, we modify these benchmark models by combining them with a pairwise test for constant correlations, a test for a constant correlation matrix, and a test for a constant covariance matrix. In an empirical horse race of these models based on five- and ten-dimensional portfolios, our study shows that the plain CCC- and DCC-GARCH models are outperformed in several settings by the approaches modified by tests for structural breaks in asset correlations and covariances.

Keywords: CCC-GARCH, DCC-GARCH, Estimation window, Structural breaks, VaR-forecast

JEL Classification: C32, C41, C53, G17, G32

Suggested Citation:

Berens, Tobias and Berens, Tobias and Weiss, Gregor N. F. and Wied, Dominik, Testing for Structural Breaks in Correlations: Does it Improve Value-at-Risk Forecasting? (March 11, 2015). Journal of Empirical Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2265488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2265488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
C E Alexander , Sheedy
Developing a Stress Testing Framework Based on Market Risk Models
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , issue 10 , p. 2220 - 2236 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A G Ang , Bekaert
International Asset Allocation with Time-Varying Correlations
Review of Financial Studies , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 1137 - 1187 Posted: 2002
A Aue , S Ormann , L Horv´athhorv´ , And M Horv´ath , Reimherr
Break Detection in the Covariance Structure of Multivariate Time Series Models
The Annals of Statistics , volume 37 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 4046 - 4087 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Basel , On , Supervision
Supervisory Framework for the Use of Backtesting in Conjunction with the Internal Model-Based Approach to Market Risk Capital Requirements
BIS Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,915
RANK
142,252
2 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

It Pays to Violate: How Effective are the Basel Accord Penalties in Encouraging Risk Management?

By Bernardo Da Veiga, Michael Mcaleer, ...

A Nonparametric Test for a Constant Correlation Matrix

By Dominik Wied

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies