Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry 'Closeness' and the Contagion Effects of Accounting Information Announcements

52 Pages Posted: 19 May 2013 Last revised: 20 Oct 2013

Jonathan F. Ross

Binghamton University

Date Written: May 10, 2013

Abstract

Firm closeness or comparability is an important concept to investors. Knowing that two firms have been historically close and observing an information announcement by one of the firms gives the investor cues as to the future performance of the other firm. Furthermore, from a methodological point of view, researchers commonly control for firm-group closeness by using industrial classification schemes such as the SIC. To the extent that these schemes group dissimilar firms, the advantage of using these schemes is undermined.

This paper more formally examines the comparability concept and develops a new measure of firm -- group accounting closeness. The measure is based on the co-movement of accounting fundamentals. This measure adds to the De Franco et al. measure in the sense that it is designed to judge the closeness of a group of firms, rather than just firm-pairs. I provide insight regarding the extent to which the SIC scheme groups similar firms. The mean SIC two-digit industry closeness over the time period 1999-2010 is 0.15 (on a scale of 0 to 1). I demonstrate that this is only slightly better than if the groups were randomly chosen. Furthermore, a trading strategy utilizing information in the measure is developed and tested. Results indicate that, when industry closeness is high enough, abnormal returns in the range of 1-3% over a 1-3 day window can be earned around leader information announcement dates. Finally, I replicate Gleason et al. (2008) and document that the industry contagion effect of an accounting restatement is increasing with the closeness of that industry.

Together, these two results contribute to the contagion/information transfer literature by empirically establishing a positive relationship between the industry contagion effects of an accounting information announcement and the closeness of that particular industry. These two results also help to bolster the construct validity of the closeness measure.

Keywords: firm-group closeness, financial statement comparability, industrial classification, contagion effects, information transfer, trading strategy

Suggested Citation:

Ross, Jonathan F., Industry 'Closeness' and the Contagion Effects of Accounting Information Announcements (May 10, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2266586 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2266586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Aharoney , I Swary
Contagion effects of bank failures: evidence from capital markets
Journal of Business , volume 56 , p. 305 - 322 Posted: 1983
Crossref
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , D Schroeder , G Strang
Inferring transactions from financial statements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , p. 365 - 385 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
Some preliminary findings on the association between the earnings of a firm, it's industry, and the economy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 55 - 80 Posted: 1967
S Bhojraj , C Lee
Who is my peer? a valuation-based approach to the selection of comparable firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 407 - 439 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
RANK
531,260
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies