Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment with Uncertain Tax Policy: Does Random Tax Policy Discourage Investment?

NBER Working Paper No. w4780

43 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2000 Last revised: 25 Jul 2022

Kevin A. Hassett

American Enterprise Institute (AEI)

Gilbert E. Metcalf

Tufts University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: June 1994

Abstract

In models with irreversible investment, increasing uncertainty about prices has been shown to increase the required rate of return (hurdle rate) and delay investment (e.g., Pindyck, 1988). One serious form of uncertainty faced by firms, a form that policy makers could conceivably control, is tax uncertainty. In this paper, we show that it does not follow from past work that tax policy uncertainty increases the expected hurdle price ratio and delays investment. This is because tax uncertainty has an unusual form that distinguishes it from price uncertainty: tax rates tend to remain constant for many years, and then change in large jumps. When tax policy follows a jump process, firms' expectations of the likelihood of the jump occurring have important effects on investment. Indeed, as we show below, while price uncertainty increases the hurdle rate and slows down investment, tax uncertainty has the opposite effect.

Suggested Citation:

Hassett, Kevin A. and Metcalf, Gilbert E., Investment with Uncertain Tax Policy: Does Random Tax Policy Discourage Investment? (June 1994). NBER Working Paper No. w4780, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=227009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Gilbert E. Metcalf
Investment in Energy Infrastructure and the Tax Code
NBER Working Paper No. w15429 · 48 Pages · Posted: 26 Oct 2009 · Last revised: 27 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 70
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Martin Jacob , Kelly Wentland , Scott Wentland
Real Effects of Tax Uncertainty: Evidence from Firm Capital Investments
71 Pages · Posted: 3 Nov 2014 · Last revised: 1 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 1,412
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lin William Cong , Sabrina T Howell
Policy Uncertainty and Innovation: Evidence from IPO Interventions in China
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 146 · 57 Pages · Posted: 6 Feb 2017 · Last revised: 3 May 2021 · Downloads: 1,376
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tim Fitzgerald , Kevin Hassett , Cody Kallen , Casey B. Mulligan
An Analysis of Vice President Biden's Economic Agenda: The Long Run Impacts of its Regulation, Taxes, and Spending
University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2020-157 · 67 Pages · Posted: 26 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 444
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,165
RANK
614,231
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Political Cycles and the Stock Market

By Pedro Santa-clara and Rossen I. Valkanov

Tax Changes and Asset Pricing: Time-Series Evidence

By Clemens Sialm

Uncertainty about Government Policy and Stock Prices

By Lubos Pastor and Pietro Veronesi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies