Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Invariant Inference and Efficient Computation in the Static Factor Model

CAMA Working Paper 32/2013

29 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2013

Joshua C. C. Chan

Purdue University; University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS Business School

Roberto Leon-Gonzalez

National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies (GRIPS)

Rodney W. Strachan

University of Queensland - School of Economics

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

Factor models are used in a wide range of areas. Two issues with Bayesian versions of these models are a lack of invariance to ordering of the variables and computational inefficiency. This paper develops invariant and efficient Bayesian methods for estimating static factor models. This approach leads to inference on the number of factors that does not depend upon the ordering of the variables, and we provide arguments to explain this invariance. Beginning from identified parameters which have nonstandard forms, we use parameter expansions to obtain a specification with standard conditional posteriors. We show significant gains in computational efficiency. Identifying restrictions that are commonly employed result in interpretable factors or loadings and, using our approach, these can be imposed ex-post. This allows us to investigate several alternative identifying schemes without the need to respecify and resample the model. We apply our methods to a simple example using a macroeconomic dataset.

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Joshua C. C. and Chan, Joshua C. C. and Leon-Gonzalez, Roberto and Strachan, Rodney W., Invariant Inference and Efficient Computation in the Static Factor Model (June 1, 2013). CAMA Working Paper 32/2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2275707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2275707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,526
RANK
805,600
10 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies