Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualitative Research Process Using Abductive Approach

1 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2013

Ahmed Alrajeh

University of Dundee

Anne Fearfull

University of Dundee

Elizabeth Monk

University of Dundee

Date Written: November 6, 2012

Abstract

A less experienced PhD candidate needs a flexible form of research design to tell a story, since the understanding of the researcher is continually evolving, which leads the student to change the focus of the research and the methods of access to information.

A story is an argument that starts with the recent discussions in the literature and ends with an explanation of the way the study has changed these discussions. The middle part provides the evidence for the development of the case and the theoretical points that have brought about the change in the literature (Dubois and Gadde, 2002).

This poster shows the process of research adopted by Dubois and Gadde (2002). The investigator continually reviews his/her analytical framework by moving from empirical material to theory and then back again.

Keywords: Qualitative research, abductive approach, deductive approach, inductive approach

JEL Classification: M40, M49, C89

Suggested Citation:

Alrajeh, Ahmed and Fearfull, Anne and Monk, Elizabeth, Qualitative Research Process Using Abductive Approach (November 6, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2276609 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2276609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,754
RANK
35,954
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies