Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Co-Movements and Earnings Manipulation

UNSW Australian School of Business Research Paper No. 2013 ACCT 01

37 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2013 Last revised: 6 Jan 2017

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Brian Rountree

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

This study develops a theory that predicts the lower the degree to which firms' earnings are correlated with the industry the greater the probability a firm will issue a biased signal of firm performance. The theory provides for causal predictions in our empirical tests in which we examine the probability a firm will be subject to an Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release (AAER). The empirical findings provide support for the theory even after controlling for various predictive variables from the prior literature, indicating the degree of earnings co-movements with the industry is in fact a causal factor in managers decisions to bias earnings reports. We further illustrate that low co-movement firms are less conservative than high co-movement firms, which provides an application of our theory to a broader setting. Overall, we provide both a theory and an empirical validation of the theory helping to discipline the thinking about earnings management and allowing for causal relations to be uncovered.

Keywords: Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases, Accounting Theory, Earnings Co-Movements, Earnings Management, Market Earnings.

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Andrew B. and Rountree, Brian Robert and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva, Earnings Co-Movements and Earnings Manipulation (December 1, 2016). UNSW Australian School of Business Research Paper No. 2013 ACCT 01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2277396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2277396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry competition and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Ang , J Chen , Y Xing
Downside risk
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , p. 1191 - 1239 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,968
RANK
272,962
11 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies