Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Valuation Implications of Employee Stock Option Accounting for Computer Software Firms

41 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2000

Timothy B. Bell

KPMG International, LLP - Assurance & Advisory Services Center

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Bruce L. Miller

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Accounting Area

Shu Yeh

KPMG LLP, Montvale

Date Written: July 2001

Abstract

In this study we compare the ability of alternative accounting methods for employee stock options (ESOs) to reflect firm value using the Ohlson [1995, 1999] and Feltham-Ohlson [1999] valuation models for a sample of 85 computer software firms. The three methods we compare are APB 25, ESO expense recognition based on SFAS 123 disclosures, and asset recognition at grant date based on the Exposure Draft: Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. We estimate abnormal earnings forecasting and valuation equations for each accounting method. Findings suggest that the method of recognition of an asset at grant date best reflects the market?s valuation of ESO transactions. A robustness test indicates the asset may have a useful life longer than the option vesting period. An additional robustness test indicates that findings are not the result of endogeneity bias.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G12, G32

Suggested Citation:

Bell, Timothy B. and Landsman, Wayne R. and Miller, Bruce Leonard and Yeh, Shu, The Valuation Implications of Employee Stock Option Accounting for Computer Software Firms (July 2001). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=227888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.227888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D Aboody
Market Valuation of Employee Stock Options
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 357 - 391 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Stock-Based Employee Compensation and Equity Market Values Posted: 2000
D Aboody , B Lev
The Value-Relevance of Intangibles: the Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Opinion No. 25: Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Accounting Principles Board Posted: 1972
Load more
1 Citations
Zining Li , Wendy M. Wilson , Suning Zhang
The Cost of Equity Implications of Accounting for Employee Stock Options
51 Pages · Posted: 14 Jan 2014 · Downloads: 41
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,623
RANK
38,805
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies