Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Multicollinearity Illusion in Moderated Regression Analysis

17 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2013 Last revised: 16 Oct 2014

David Disatnik

Tel Aviv University - Faculty of Management ; Tel Aviv University - Faculty of Management

Liron Sivan

Carnegie Mellon University - H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 16, 2014

Abstract

Numerous papers in the fields of marketing and consumer behavior that utilize moderated multiple regression express concerns regarding multicollinearity issues. In most cases, however, as we show in this paper, the perceived multicollinearity is merely an illusion that arises from misinterpreting high correlations between independent variables and interaction terms.

Keywords: Multicollinearity, Moderated Multiple Regression, Interaction, Monte Carlo Simulations

Suggested Citation:

Disatnik, David J. and Disatnik, David J. and Sivan, Liron, The Multicollinearity Illusion in Moderated Regression Analysis (October 16, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2283066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2283066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
choice. Journal of Retailing , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 281 - 96
Crossref
S A Spiller , G J Fitzsimons , J G Lynch , Jr , G H Mcclelland
Spotlights, floodlights, and the magic number zero: Simple effects tests in moderated regression
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 50 , p. 277 - 288 Posted: 2013-04
Crossref
C Storey , M Hughes
The relative impact of culture, strategic orientation and capability on new service development performance
European Journal of Marketing , volume 47 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 833 - 856 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Storey , K B Kahn
The role of knowledge management strategies and task knowledge in stimulating service innovation
Journal of Service Research , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 397 - 410 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Daniela Lange , Jana Corbett , Nina Knoll , Ralf Schwarzer , Sonia Lippke
Fruit and Vegetable Intake: the Interplay of Planning, Social Support, and Sex
International Journal of Behavioral Medicine , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 421 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Suhyung Lee
Personal growth initiative: effects of subjective career success and perceived shared leadership and moderating effects of challenging job experience
Human Resource Development International , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Robert E. Carter
Faculty Scholarship Has a Profound Positive Association With Student Evaluations of Teaching—Except When It Doesn’t
Journal of Marketing Education , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 18 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Dawn Iacobucci , Matthew Schneider , Deidre Popovich , Yiorgos Bakamitsos
Mean Centering, Multicollinearity, and Moderators in Multiple Regression: The Reconciliation Redux
Behavior Research Methods, 49, 403-404 (2017) · 4 Pages · Posted: 29 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 72
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
696
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,147
RANK
85,245
5 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral Marketing eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Spotlights, Floodlights, and the Magic Number Zero: Simple Effects Tests in Moderated Regression

By Stephen A. Spiller, Gavan J. Fitzsimons, ...

The 1/N Rule Revisited: Heterogeneity in the Naïve Diversification Bias

By Daniel Fernandes

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies