Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Mining Driven Neighborhood Search

INFORMS Journal on Computing, Volume 24 Issue 2, Spring 2012 Pages 210-227

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1098

30 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2013 Last revised: 22 Jan 2014

Michele Samorani

Santa Clara University - Information Systems and Analytics

Manuel Laguna

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: December 2, 2010

Abstract

Metaheuristic approaches based on neighborhood search escape local optimality by applying predefined rules and constraints, such as tabu restrictions (in tabu search), acceptance criteria (in simulated annealing), and shaking (in VNS). We propose a general approach that attempts to learn (offline) the guiding constraints that, when applied online, will result in effective escape directions from local optima. Given a class of problems, the learning process is performed offline and the results are applied to constrained neighborhood searches to guide the solution process out of local optimality. Computational results on the Constrained Task Allocation Problem (CTAP) show that adding these guiding constraints to a simple tabu search improves the quality of the solutions found, making the overall method competitive with state-of-the-art methods for this class of problems. We also present a second set of tests on the matrix bandwidth minimization problem.

Suggested Citation:

Samorani, Michele and Laguna, Manuel, Data Mining Driven Neighborhood Search (December 2, 2010). INFORMS Journal on Computing, Volume 24 Issue 2, Spring 2012 Pages 210-227 , University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1098, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2284385
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A B Hadj-Alouane , J C Bean , K G Murty
A hybrid genetic/optimization algorithm for a task allocation problem
Journal of Scheduling , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 189 - 201 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M Better , F Glover , M Samorani
Classification by vertical and cutting multi-hyperplane decision tree induction
Decision Support Systems , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 430 - 436 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Boyan , W
Statistical Machine Learning for Large Scale Optimization
Neural Computing Surveys , p. 1 - 58 Posted: 2000
W H Chen , C S Lin
A hybrid heuristic to solve a task allocation problem
Computers & Operations Research , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 287 - 303 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,269
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies