Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robust Estimation and Inference for Threshold Models with Integrated Regressors

45 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2013

Haiqiang Chen

Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for studies in Economics

Date Written: June 30, 2013

Abstract

This paper studies the robust estimation and inference of threshold models with integrated regressors. We derive the asymptotic distribution of the profiled least squares (LS) estimator under the diminishing threshold effect assumption that the size of the threshold effect converges to zero. Depending on how rapidly this sequence converges, the model may be identified or only weakly identified and asymptotic theorems are developed for both cases. As the convergence rate is unknown in practice, a model-selection procedure is applied to determine the model identification strength and to construct robust confidence intervals, which have the correct asymptotic size irrespective of the magnitude of the threshold effect. The model is then generalized to incorporate endogeneity and serial correlation in error terms, under which, we design a Cochrane-Orcutt feasible generalized least squares (FGLS) estimator which enjoys efficiency gains and robustness against different error specifications, including both I(0) and I(1) errors. Based on this FGLS estimator, we further develop a sup-Wald statistic to test for the existence of the threshold effect. Monte Carlo simulations show that our estimators and test statistics perform well.

Keywords: Threshold effects, Integrated processes, Nonlinear cointegration, Weak identification

JEL Classification: C12, C22, C52

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Haiqiang, Robust Estimation and Inference for Threshold Models with Integrated Regressors (June 30, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2287442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2287442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,554
RANK
640,233
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Asymptotic Theory for Local Time Density Estimation and Nonparametric Cointegration Regression

By Qiying Wang and Peter C. B. Phillips

Structural Nonparametric Cointegrating Regression

By Qiying Wang and Peter C. B. Phillips

Limit Theorems for Functionals of Sums that Converge to Fractional Stable Motions

By P. Jeganathan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies