Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Autoregressive Modeling

Posted: 3 Jul 2013 Last revised: 3 Sep 2013

Fred Viole

OVVO Financial Systems; Fordham University

David N. Nawrocki

Villanova University - Department of Finance

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

Using component series from a given time series, we are able to demonstrate forecasting ability with none of the requirements of the traditional ARMA method, while strictly adhering to the definition of an autoregressive model. We also propose a new test for seasonality using coefficient of variance comparisons for component series, and then extend this proposed method to non-seasonal data. The resulting effect is that of conditional heteroskedasticity on the forecast with more accurate forecasts derived from implementing nonlinear regressions into the component series.

Keywords: ARMA, seasonality, conditional heteroskedasticity, nonlinear regression

JEL Classification: C00

Suggested Citation:

Viole, Fred and Nawrocki, David N., Autoregressive Modeling (July 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2288213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2288213
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
786
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies