Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonparametric Tests for Event Studies Under Cross-Sectional Dependence

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 244

20 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2013

Matteo M. Pelagatti

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS); Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in Economics, Psychology & Social Sciences (CISEPS)

Date Written: May 2013

Abstract

We propose three nonparametric tests for the null of no event-induced shifts in the distribution of stock returns. One test is the natural extension of the popular Corrado rank test to the case of cross-sectionally dependent returns, while the other two are based on new ideas. Unfortunately only for one of these tests a solid theory for approximating the distribution of the statistic can be derived, but some simulation experiments confirm that normality is a good approximation also for the other two. The new tests are compared to a widely used parametric test (Patell) through simulation experiments and are shown to compare favorably in terms of power. Simulation results are based on bootstrapping daily stock returns from the S&P100 and NASDAQ indexes.

Keywords: rank test, event study, abnormal returns, cross-sectional dependence

JEL Classification: G14, C12, C14

Suggested Citation:

Pelagatti, Matteo M., Nonparametric Tests for Event Studies Under Cross-Sectional Dependence (May 2013). University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 244, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2291241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2291241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
J Bartholdy , D Olson , P Peare
Conducting event studies on a small stock exchange
The European Journal of Finance , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 252 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Boehmer , J Musumeci , A B Poulsen
Event-study methodology under conditions of event-induced variance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 253 - 272 Posted: 1991
Crossref
C J Corrado
A nonparametric test for abnormal security-price performance in event studies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 23 , p. 385 - 395 Posted: 1989
Crossref
C J Corrado , C Truong
Conducting event studies with asiapacific security market data
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 16 , p. 493 - 521 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,574
RANK
418,259
2 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management & Statistics Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies