Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combining Two Consistent Estimators

In: Essays in Honor of Jerry Hausman: Advances in Econometrics, Volume 29, Emerald, New York, 2012

20 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2013

John C. Chao

University of Maryland

Jerry A. Hausman

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Whitney K. Newey

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Norman R. Swanson

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Department of Economics; Rutgers University - Department of Economics

Tiemen Woutersen

University of Arizona

Date Written: August 2012

Abstract

This paper shows how a weighted average of a forward and reverse Jackknife IV estimator (JIVE) yields estimators that are robust against heteroscedasticity and many instruments. These estimators, called HFUL (Heteroscedasticity robust Fuller) and HLIM (Heteroskedasticity robust limited information maximum likelihood (LIML)) were introduced by Hausman et al. (2012), but without derivation. Combining consistent estimators is a theme that is associated with Jerry Hausman and, therefore, we present this derivation in this volume. Additionally, and in order to further understand and interpret HFUL and HLIM in the context of jackknife type variance ratio estimators, we show that a new variant of HLIM, under specific grouped data settings with dummy instruments, simplifies to the Bekker and van der Ploeg (2005) MM (method of moments) estimator.

Keywords: endogeneity, instrumental variables, jackknife estimation, many moments, Hausman (1978) test

JEL Classification: C13, C31

Suggested Citation:

Chao, John C. and Hausman, Jerry A. and Newey, Whitney K. and Swanson, Norman Rasmus and Swanson, Norman Rasmus and Woutersen, Tiemen, Combining Two Consistent Estimators (August 2012). In: Essays in Honor of Jerry Hausman: Advances in Econometrics, Volume 29, Emerald, New York, 2012 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2294118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
P A Bekker , J Van Der Ploeg
Instrumental variable estimation based on grouped data
Statistica Neerlandica , volume 59 , p. 506 - 508 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Blomquist , M Dahlberg
Small sample properties of LIML and jackknife IV estimators: experiments with weak instruments
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 14 , p. 69 - 88 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J C Chao , N R Swanson , J A Hausman , W K Newey , T Woutersen
Asymptotic distribution of JIVE in a heteroskedastic IV regression with many instruments
Econometric Theory , volume 28 , p. 42 - 86 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Davidson , J G Mackinnon
The case against JIVE (with discussion and reply)
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 21 , p. 827 - 833 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,695
RANK
708,207
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Instrumental Variables Regression with Weak Instruments

By Douglas Staiger and James H. Stock

Testing for Weak Instruments in Linear IV Regression

By James H. Stock and Motohiro Yogo

Testing for Weak Instruments in Linear IV Regression

By James H. Stock and Motohiro Yogo

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies