Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition in the Audit Market: Policy Implications

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-63

70 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2013 Last revised: 18 Apr 2015

Joseph Gerakos

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College

Chad Syverson

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 17, 2015

Abstract

The audit market's unique combination of features - its role in capital market transparency, mandated demand, and concentrated supply - means it receives considerable attention from policymakers. We explore the effects of two market scenarios that have been the focus of policy discussions: mandatory audit firm rotation and further supply concentration due to the exit of a "Big 4" audit firm. To do so, we first estimate publicly traded firms' demand for auditing services, allowing the services provided by each of the Big 4 to be differentiated products. We then use those estimates to calculate how each scenario would affect client firms consumer surplus. We estimate that, conservatively, mandatory audit firm rotation would induce consumer surplus losses of approximately $2.7 billion if rotation were required after ten years and $4.7-5.0 billion if after only four years. We find similarly that exit by one of the Big 4 would reduce client firms' surplus by $1.4-1.8 billion. These estimates reflect only the value of firms' lost options to hire the exiting audit firm; they do not include likely fee increases resulting from less competition among audit firms. The latter could result in audit fee increases between $0.75-1.3 billion per year for mandatory rotation and $0.47-0.58 billion per year for the disappearance of a Big 4 audit firm. Such losses are substantial; by comparison, total audit fees for public firms were $11 billion in 2010.

Keywords: Mandatory Rotation, Competition

JEL Classification: L84, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gerakos, Joseph and Syverson, Chad, Competition in the Audit Market: Policy Implications (April 17, 2015). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-63, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2294508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2294508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Ln(Actual Fees)
Crossref
Ln
Predicted fees are generated on an auditor-year basis using randomForest with the following predictor variables: total assets, the number of industrial segments the firm operates in, foreign sales, debt, return on assets, inventory & receivables, indicators to capture whether and for how long the firm was a client of the audit firm (all of the preceding are characteristics of the client firm), indicators for whether the audit firm has an office in the client's MSA, and indicators for the FamaFrench ten-industry classification Posted: 2001
B Panel
Not an Arthur Andersen client in Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,249
RANK
36,568
2 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why Has IPO Underpricing Changed Over Time?

By Tim Loughran and Jay R. Ritter

Why Has IPO Underpricing Changed Over Time?

By Tim Loughran and Jay R. Ritter

A Review of IPO Activity, Pricing and Allocations

By Jay R. Ritter and Ivo Welch

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies