Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing for Structural Stability of Factor Augmented Forecasting Models

Journal of Econometrics, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2013

Valentina Corradi

University of Warwick - Department of Economics

Norman R. Swanson

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Department of Economics; Rutgers University - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 2013

Abstract

Mild factor loading instability, particularly if sufficiently independent across the different constituent variables, does not affect the estimation of the number of factors, nor subsequent estimation of the factors themselves (see e.g. Stock and Watson (2009)). This result does not hold in the presence of large common breaks in the factor loadings, however. In this case, information criteria overestimate the number of breaks. Additionally, estimated factors are no longer consistent estimators of "true" factors. Hence, various recent research papers in the diffusion index literature focus on testing the constancy of factor loadings. One reason why this is a positive development is that in applied work, factor augmented forecasting models are used widely for prediction, and it is important to understand when such models are stable. Now, forecast failure of factor augmented models can be due to either factor loading instability, regression coefficient instability, or both. To address this issue, we develop a test for the joint hypothesis of structural stability of both factor loadings and factor augmented forecasting model regression coefficients. The proposed statistic is based on the difference between full sample and rolling sample estimators of the sample covariance of the factors and the variable to be forecasted. Failure to reject the null ensures the structural stability of the factor augmented forecasting model. If the null is instead rejected, one can proceed to disentangle the cause of the rejection as being due to either (or both) of the afore mentioned varieties of instability. Standard inference can be carried out, as the suggested statistic has a chi-squared limiting distribution. We also establish the first order validity of (block) bootstrap critical values. Finally, we provide an empirical illustration by testing for the structural stability of factor augmented forecasting models for 11 U.S. macroeconomic indicators.

Keywords: diffusion index, factor loading stability, forecast failure, forecast stability, regression coefficients stability

JEL Classification: C12, C22, C53

Suggested Citation:

Corradi, Valentina and Swanson, Norman Rasmus and Swanson, Norman Rasmus, Testing for Structural Stability of Factor Augmented Forecasting Models (April 2013). Journal of Econometrics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2294147
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Nii Ayi C. Armah , Norman Rasmus Swanson , Norman Rasmus Swanson
Seeing Inside the Black Box: Using Diffusion Index Methodology to Construct Factor Proxies in Largescale Macroeconomic Time Series Environments
FRB of Philadelphia Working Paper No. 08-25 Pages: 38 Posted: 7 Mar 2007 Last revised: 22 Nov 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Bai
Inferential Theory for Factor Models of Large Dimensions
Econometrica , volume 71 , p. 135 - 171 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bai , S Ng
Determining the Number of Factors in Approximate Factor Models
Econometrica , volume 70 , p. 191 - 221 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Bai , S Ng
Confidence Intervals for Diffusion Index Forecasts and Inference with Factor Augmented Regressions
Econometrica , volume 74 , p. 1133 - 1150 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Ray Y. Chou , Tso-Jung Yen , Yu-Min Yen
Macroeconomic Forecasting Using Approximate Factor Models with Outliers
International Journal of Forecasting, vol. 36, 2020 · 45 Pages · Posted: 8 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 28 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 43
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zhonghao Fu , Yongmiao Hong , Xia Wang
Testing for Structural Changes in Large Dimensional Factor Models via Discrete Fourier Transform
50 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 5 May 2022 · Downloads: 187
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Barbara Rossi
Forecasting in the Presence of Instabilities: How Do We Know Whether Models Predict Well and How to Improve Them
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP14472 · 70 Pages · Posted: 25 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 13
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Daniele Massacci
Unstable Diffusion Indexes: With an Application to Bond Risk Premia
Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics, Vol. 81, Issue 6, pp. 1376-1400, 2019 · 25 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 2
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,268
RANK
702,914
4 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies