Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Distribution of Maxima and Minima of Multivariate Random Variates

35 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2013

Bernhard Hientzsch

Wells Fargo Bank

Date Written: July 4, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, a characterization of the joint distribution function for the maximum and minimum of a vector is presented in terms of the joint distribution function for the vector. If the joint distribution function is given explicitly, for instance by a copula and marginals, this leads to an explicit computation of the joint distribution function for the maximum and minimum, through a simple algorithm showing exponential computation times, which is nevertheless competitive against simulation approaches for high accuracy and low error for up to seven marginals (and potentially more, depending on the accuracy requirements). Archimedean copulas, among others, provide such an explicit joint distribution function for the vector. For identical marginals, they allow a much faster computation of the joint distribution function for the maximum and minimum, leading to a second algorithm. The algorithms are then used to compare the joint distribution functions for different copulas and different parameters corresponding to different values of Kendall's bi-variate tau and to study the convergence of the empirical joint distribution for the maximum and minimum to the exact joint distribution function.

Keywords: joint distribution function of maximum and minimum, copula, Archimedean copula

JEL Classification: C15, C61, C63, C88

Suggested Citation:

Hientzsch, Bernhard, Joint Distribution of Maxima and Minima of Multivariate Random Variates (July 4, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2295668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2295668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Dependence of errors on the number of samples for lognormal marginals and Ali-Mikhail-Haq copula (τ = 0.2, θ ≈ 0.7135) for five marginals References
Figure , volume 20
Mario R. Melchiori
Tools for Sampling Multivariate Archimedean Copulas
YieldCurve, April 2006 Pages: 8 Posted: 25 Apr 2008 Last revised: 15 Jun 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Albert W Marshall , Ingram Olkin
Families of Multivariate Distributions
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 83 , p. 834 - 841 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Marius Hofert
Efficiently Sampling Nested Archimedean Copula
Computational Statistics & Data Analysis , volume 55 , p. 57 - 70 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,315
RANK
125,376
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Market Liquidity Risk - An Overview

By Sebastian Stange and Christoph Kaserer

Which Archimedean Copula is the Right One?

By Mario R. Melchiori

Tools for Sampling Multivariate Archimedean Copulas

By Mario R. Melchiori

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies