Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bayesian Analysis of Tail Asymmetry Based on a Threshold Extreme Value Model

27 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2013

Mike K. P. So

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information & Systems Management

Raymond K. S. Chan

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information Systems, Business Statistics and Operations Management

Date Written: September 12, 2012

Abstract

This paper studies a threshold extreme value distribution for modeling standardized financial returns. The main theme is tail asymmetry, which means that the left and right tails of the standardized return distribution are not identical. The peak-over-threshold idea in extreme value theory is adopted to construct the threshold extreme value distribution with two generalized Pareto tails for modeling tail asymmetry. The estimation of unknown parameters is performed within the Bayesian paradigm. Bayesian tail asymmetry tests are set up and Chib (1995) marginal likelihood approach is found to be most reliable. In the empirical analysis of nine securities, strong evidence of tail asymmetry is observed in equities, whereas modest evidence is documented in currencies and Gold futures. Oil futures is very volatile but shows weak evidence of tail asymmetry. Equity indices show a thinner than normal right tail in volatile periods, contradicting the usual fat-tail assumption in financial return modeling. One striking result is that all securities exhibit an increasing propagation of tail asymmetry during financial crises, suggesting that the level of tail asymmetry can be an indicator of the occurrence of extreme financial events. In terms of risk calculation, the threshold extreme value distribution is superior to its symmetric version and Student’s t distribution in forecasting multiple-period value at risk, especially when we are concerned with the right tail of the return distribution, i.e. in the short position. Our method performs particularly well in 10-day-1% and 10-day-99% value at risk forecasting, which are Basel requirements for capital adequacy calculation.

Keywords: Bayesian tests, model selection, tail asymmetry, threshold models, time series

Suggested Citation:

So, Mike K.P. and Chan, Raymond K. S., Bayesian Analysis of Tail Asymmetry Based on a Threshold Extreme Value Model (September 12, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2295243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2295243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
T Ando
Bayesian predictive information criterion for the evaluation of hierarchical bayesian and empirical bayes models
Biometrika , volume 94 , p. 443 - 458 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T Ando
An extreme value approach to estimating interest-rate volatility: Pricing implications for interest-rate options
American Journal of Mathematical and Management Sciences , volume 53 , p. 323 - 339 Posted: 2007
T G Bali , D Weinbaum
A conditional extreme value volatility estimator based on high-frequency returns
Journal of Economic Dynamic and Control , volume 31 , p. 361 - 397 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C N Behrens , H F Lopes , D Gamerman
Bayesian analysis of extreme events with threshold estimation
Statistical Modelling , volume 4 , p. 227 - 244 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,441
RANK
568,026
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies