Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Better Risk and Performance Estimates with Factor Model Monte Carlo

Journal of Risk, June 2015

21 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2013 Last revised: 30 Oct 2015

Yindeng Jiang

University of Washington Investment Management Company

R. Douglas Martin

University of Washington

Date Written: July 18, 2013

Abstract

A common problem in asset and portfolio risk and performance analysis is that the manager has such a short history of asset returns that risk and performance measure estimates are quite unreliable. But the manager has available long histories of many risk factors and can use a subset of them to construct a high R-squared risk-factor model for the asset returns. We introduce a simple method of simulating from such a factor-model that yields considerably improved accuracy of risk and performance measures, and show that it is important to use a statistically justified method of choosing the risk factors. The resulting factor-model Monte Carlo (FMMC) method works well by virtue of adequately reflecting the non-normality of the factor and asset returns, and by borrowing strength from the correlation between the risk factors and the asset returns.

Keywords: risk and performance measures, estimation accuracy, short returns histories, nonnormality, factor models, model selection, bootstrap

JEL Classification: C13, C15

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Yindeng and Martin, R. Douglas, Better Risk and Performance Estimates with Factor Model Monte Carlo (July 18, 2013). Journal of Risk, June 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2295602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2295602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Msci Em Index
Posted: 1997
Crossref
T W References , Anderson
Maximum likelihood estimates for a multivariate normal distribution when some observations are missing
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 52 , issue 278 Posted: 1957
Gerda Claeskens and Nils Lid Hjort. Model Selection and Model Averaging , volume 27 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Bradley Efron
Missing data, imputation, and the bootstrap
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 89 , issue 426 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Cristian Homescu
Better Investing Through Factors, Regimes and Sensitivity Analysis
100 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2015 · Downloads: 2,837
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R. Douglas Martin , Shengyu Zhang
Nonparametric versus Parametric Expected Shortfall
Journal of Risk, Vol. 21, No. 6, 2019 · 42 Pages · Posted: 20 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
696
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,026
RANK
85,245
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies