Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Residual-Based Rank Specification Tests for AR-GARCH Type Models

52 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2013

Elena Andreou

University of Cyprus - Department of Economics

Bas J. M. Werker

Tilburg University - Center for Economic Research (CentER)

Date Written: July 19, 2013

Abstract

This paper derives the asymptotic distribution for a number of rank-based and classical residual specification tests in AR-GARCH type models. We consider tests for the null hypotheses of no linear and quadratic serial residual autocorrelation, residual symmetry, and no structural breaks. For these tests we show that, generally, no size correction is needed in the asymptotic test distribution when applied to AR-GARCH type residuals obtained through QMLE estimation. To be precise, we give exact expressions for the limiting null distribution of the test statistics applied to residuals, and ﬁnd that standard critical values often lead to conservative tests. For this result, we give simple sufficient conditions. Simulations show that our asymptotic approximations work well for a large number of AR-GARCH models and parameter values. We also show that the rank-based tests often, though not always, have superior power properties over the classical tests, even if they are conservative. We thereby provide a useful extension to the econometrician’s toolkit. An empirical application illustrates the relevance of these tests to the AR-GARCH models for the weekly stock market return indices of some major and emerging countries.

Keywords: Conditional heteroskedasticity, Linear and quadratic residual auto- correlation tests, Model misspecification test, Nonlinear time series, Parameter constancy, Residual symmetry tests

JEL Classification: C22, C32, C51, C52

Suggested Citation:

Andreou, Elena and Werker, Bas J.M., Residual-Based Rank Specification Tests for AR-GARCH Type Models (July 19, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2295906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2295906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
K Abadir , W Distaso
Testing joint hypotheses when one of the alternatives is one-sided
Journal of Econometrics , volume 140 , p. 695 - 718 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Andreou , E Ghysels
Detecting multiple breaks in financial market volatility dynamics
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 17 , p. 579 - 600 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E Andreou , B J M Werker
An alternative asymptotic analysis of residual-based statistics
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 88 - 99 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Bai , S Ng
A consistent test for conditional symmetry in time series models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 103 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 225 - 258 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,721
RANK
362,694
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Measuring and Testing the Impact of News on Volatility

By Robert F. Engle and Victor K. Ng

Caviar: Conditional Value at Risk by Quantile Regression

By Simone Manganelli and Robert F. Engle

Dynamic Conditional Correlation - a Simple Class of Multivariate GARCH Models

By Robert F. Engle

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies