Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calculation of Compensation Incentives and Firm-Related Wealth Using Execucomp: Data, Program, and Explanation

10 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2013

Jeffrey L. Coles

University of Utah - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Naveen D. Daniel

Drexel University - Department of Finance

Lalitha Naveen

Temple University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: July 19, 2013

Abstract

In response to recent requests from academics and practitioners, this note addresses the data and program we use in our published articles on executive compensation and incentives. First, we detail our methodology for the calculation of delta (pay-performance sensitivity), vega (risk-taking incentives), and firm-specific wealth (inside equity) for executives on the Execucomp database. Second, we provide the data on these measures for the period 1992-2010 as well as the accompanying SAS program as downloadable files on our websites.

Keywords: Executive compensation, compensation incentives, pay-performance sensitivity, risk-taking incentives, inside equity, firm-specific wealth

JEL Classification: G3, J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Coles, Jeffrey L. and Daniel, Naveen D. and Naveen, Lalitha, Calculation of Compensation Incentives and Firm-Related Wealth Using Execucomp: Data, Program, and Explanation (July 19, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2296381 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2296381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
J. Carr Bettis , John M. Bizjak , Jeffrey L. Coles , Swaminathan L. Kalpathy
Performance-Vesting Provisions in Executive Compensation
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 66, 2018 Pages: 66 Posted: 4 Jul 2013 Last revised: 19 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Core , W Guay
Estimating the value of employee stock option portfolios and their sensitivities to price and volatility
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 613 - 630 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Coles , N Daniel , L Naveen
Managerial incentives and risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , p. 431 - 468 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Naveen D. Daniel , Lily Yuanzhi Li , Lalitha Naveen
Symmetry in Pay for Luck
Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming , Fox School of Business Research Paper Pages: 43 Posted: 11 Oct 2012 Last revised: 31 Jan 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8,372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
34,912
RANK
1,729
62 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies