Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategy and Control: Findings from a Set-Theoretical Analysis of High-Performance Manufacturing Firms

Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 03.13

47 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2013 Last revised: 4 Jan 2015

David H. Erkens

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Wim A. Van der Stede

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: January 3, 2015

Abstract

We examine how management control systems combine with the organizational context, particularly strategy, to result in firm performance, and introduce fuzzy-set Qualitative Comparative Analysis (fsQCA) to accounting research as an alternative empirical tool for testing and building contingency theory. Using fsQCA on data from U.S. manufacturing firms, we provide not only novel large-sample confirmatory evidence for two high performance configura-tions that are primarily based on Simons’ field research (1990, 1991), but also exploratory evidence that is useful for extending contingency research. Specifically, we identify alternative configurations that consistently lead to high performance, and find that the collection of equally-well performing configurations changes depending on the level of performance. In addition, we illustrate some appealing features of fsQCA in relation to other quantitative statistical methods hitherto commonly used in this line of research. Conceptually, our study speaks to the notion of “contingent configurations” by drawing on tenets from both the configurational and contingency views of organizations.

Keywords: Management control systems, strategy, organizational configurations, qualitative comparative analysis

JEL Classification: L22, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Erkens, David Hendrik and Van der Stede, Wim A., Strategy and Control: Findings from a Set-Theoretical Analysis of High-Performance Manufacturing Firms (January 3, 2015). Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 03.13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2296468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2296468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M Abernethy , A Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control system design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
Crossref
P Adler , C Chen
Combining creativity and control: Understanding individual motivation in large-scale collaborative creativity. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 63 - 85 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S L Beilock , C A Kulp , L E Holt , T H Carr
More on the Fragility of Performance: Choking Under Pressure in Mathematical Problem Solving
Journal of Experimental Psychology , volume 133 , issue 4 , p. 584 - 600 Posted: 2004
P M Blau
A formal theory of differentiation in organizations
American Sociological Review , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 201 - 218 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
758
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,514
RANK
76,350
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies