Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Mechanism of Retrieval of Data from XBRL, Its Uses and Potential Enhancements

17 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2013

Igor Pustylnick

Far Eastern Federal University; Conestoga College

Date Written: July 4, 2013

Abstract

Mandatory use of XBRL in financial statement filings offers a new opportunity of reading electronic filing data in the same format it was submitted to U.S. SEC. The attempt was made to read this data and to access its suitability for the financial research. In this research we read 2260 filings and attempted to use them in the complex financial calculations requiring 16 variables from Income Statement and Balance Sheet. With the requirement of having non-zero values for at least 14 out 16 variables we could only keep 25% of the statement data as suitable for research. Tree pattern used in retrieval fails because the filers use the tags outside of the designated tree and because of the use of custom tags. The amount of discarded data can be reduced by using containment pattern for describing relationship between custom tags and taxonomy tags.

Keywords: XBRL, Data Extraction, Tree Pattern, Containment Pattern, Digital Financial Data, Digital Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Pustylnick, Igor, The Mechanism of Retrieval of Data from XBRL, Its Uses and Potential Enhancements (July 4, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2298509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2298509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Abdullah , I Khadaroo , J Shaikh
Institutionalisation of XBRL in the USA and UK
International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting , volume 1 , p. 292 - 304 Posted: 2009
Crossref
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 1968
Crossref
J Bartley , A Y S Chen , E Z Taylor
A Comparison of XBRL Filings to Corporate 10-Ks-Evidence from the Voluntary Filing Program. Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , p. 227 - 245 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C Blilie
Patterns in scientific software: an introduction
Computing in Science & Engine , volume 4 , p. 48 - 53 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,381
RANK
303,587
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies