Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inference on Non-Stationary Time Series with Moving Mean

32 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2013

Jiti Gao

Monash University - Department of Econometrics & Business Statistics

Peter M. Robinson

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: July 23, 2013

Abstract

A semi-parametric model is proposed in which a parametric filtering of a non-stationary time series, incorporating fractionally differencing with short memory correction, removes correlation but leaves a non-parametric deterministic trend. Estimates of the memory parameter and other dependence parameters are proposed, and shown to be consistent and asymptotically normally distributed with parametric rate. Unit root tests with standard asymptotic distributions are thereby justified. Estimation of the trend function is also considered. We include a Monte Carlo study of nite-sample performance.

Keywords: fractional time series, fixed design non-parametric regression, non-stationary time series, unit root tests

JEL Classification: C14, C22

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Jiti and Robinson, Peter M., Inference on Non-Stationary Time Series with Moving Mean (July 23, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2302894 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2302894
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
J K Benedetti
On the nonparametric estimation of regression functions
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series B , volume 39 , p. 248 - 253 Posted: 1977
Crossref
J Beran , Y Feng
Local polynomial …tting with long memory, short memory and antipersistent errors
Annals of the Institute of Statisitical Mathematics , volume 54 , p. 291 - 311 Posted: 2002
S Csorgo , J Mielniczuk
Nonparametric regression under long-range dependent normal errors
Annals of Statistics , volume 23 , p. 1000 - 1014 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Deo
Nonparametric regression with long-memory errors
Statistics and Probability Letters , volume 33 , p. 89 - 94 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
RANK
819,493
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies