Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price Jump Indicators: Stock Market Empirics During the Crisis

William Davidson Institute Working Paper No. 1050

35 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2013

Jan Novotny

Charles University in Prague - CERGE-EI, a joint workplace of Charles University and the Economics Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences; City University London - Faculty of Finance; City University London - Faculty of Finance

Jan Hanousek

Faculty of Business and Economics, Mendel University in Brno; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Evžen Kočenda

Charles University in Prague - Institute of Economic Studies; Institute of Information Theory and Automation (Czech Academy of Sciences) - Department of Econometrics; CESifo; University of Regensburg - Institute for East and Southeast European Studies

Date Written: June 29, 2013

Abstract

We analyze the behavior and performance of multiple price jump indicators across markets and over time. By using high-frequency stock market data we identify clusters of price jump indicators that share similar properties in terms of their performance in that they minimize Type I and Type II errors. We show that clusters of price jump indicators formed over the observations do not exhibit equal size. Clusters are stable across stock market indices and accuracy across price jump indicators are both stable over time. There was no significant change in the composition of clusters associated with market activity and the detected numbers of price jumps are stable over time. The recent financial crisis does not seem to affect the overall jumpiness of mature or emerging stock markets. Our results support the stress testing approach of the Basel III Accords in that the jump component of the volatility process does not need to be treated separately for the purpose of stress testing.

Keywords: stock markets, price jump indicators, non-parametric testing, clustering analysis, financial econometrics, Basel Accords

JEL Classification: C14, C58, F37, G15, G17

Suggested Citation:

Novotny, Jan and Novotny, Jan and Novotny, Jan and Hanousek, Jan and Kocenda, Evzen, Price Jump Indicators: Stock Market Empirics During the Crisis (June 29, 2013). William Davidson Institute Working Paper No. 1050, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2302835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2302835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
V Acharya , M Richardson
Restoring Financial Stability: How to Repair a Failed System Posted: 2009
Y Ait-Sahalia , J Cacho-Diaz , T Hurd
Portfolio Choice with Jumps: A Closed Form Solution
Annals of Applied Probability , volume 19 , p. 556 - 584 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Y Ait-Sahalia , J Jacod
Testing for Jumps in a Discretely Observed Process
Annals of Statistics , volume 37 , p. 184 - 222 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Y Ait-Sahalia , J Jacod
Estimating the Degree of Activity of Jumps in High Frequency Data
Annals of Statistics , volume 37 , p. 2202 - 2244 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,656
RANK
416,013
3 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies