Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Approach for Analyzing Panel AR(1) Series with Application to the Unit Root Test

Posted: 31 Jul 2013

Yu-Pin Hu

National Chi Nan University

Gene Hwang

Cornell University

Date Written: July 30, 2013

Abstract

This paper derives several novel statistics to improve on the t-statistic for testing AR(1) coefficients of panel time series under the scenario of "small n large p", where n is the sample size and p is the dimension of panel series. These tests aim at maximizing the average power of individual tests while controlling the average type one error. Unlike some approaches in the literature, these tests are multiple tests that determine which individual series satisfies the null hypothesis. This paper adopts the empirical Bayes approach or equivalently random effect model approach to develop a general theory which leads to several powerful tests. Strikingly, they basically take a simple form similar to a t-statistic; the only difference is that the means and the variances are estimated by shrinkage estimators. Simulation studies show that the proposed statistics out-perform the t-statistic, and the results are robust with respect to the miss-specification of prior distributions.

Keywords: Empirical Bayes, Multiple test, Panel time series, Random effect model, Shrinkage estimator, Unit root test

JEL Classification: C12, C32

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Yu-Pin and Hwang, Gene, A New Approach for Analyzing Panel AR(1) Series with Application to the Unit Root Test (July 30, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2303656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2303656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
915
RANK
596,846
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Methods: Quantitative Methods eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Determining the Stationarity Properties of Individual Series in Panel Datasets

By George Kapetanios

Determining the Poolability of Individual Series in Panel Datasets

By George Kapetanios

Getting PPP Right: Identifying Mean-Reverting Real Exchange Rates in Panels

By Georgios E. Chortareas and George Kapetanios

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies