Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Econometrics of the Basu Asymmetric Timeliness Coefficient and Accounting Conservatism

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-65

37 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2013

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Valeri V. Nikolaev

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2013

Abstract

A substantial literature investigates conditional conservatism, defined as asymmetric accounting recognition of economic shocks (“news”), and how it depends on various market, political and institutional variables. Studies typically assume the Basu (1997) asymmetric timeliness coefficient (the incremental slope on negative returns in a piecewise-linear regression of accounting income on stock returns) is a valid conditional conservatism measure. We analyze the measure’s validity, in the context of a model with accounting income incorporating different types of information with different lags, and with noise. We demonstrate that the asymmetric timeliness coefficient varies with firm characteristics affecting their information environments, such as the length of the firm’s operating and investment cycles, and its degree of diversification. We particularly examine one characteristic, the extent to which “unbooked” information (such as revised expectations about rents and growth options) is independent of other information, and discuss the conditions under which a proxy for this characteristic is the market-to-book ratio. We also conclude that much criticism of the Basu regression misconstrues researchers’ objectives.

Keywords: Conditional conservatism, Timely loss recognition, Basu model, Returns-earnings regressions, Earning respnse coefficients, Market-to-book ratio

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray and Kothari, S.P. and Nikolaev, Valeri V., Econometrics of the Basu Asymmetric Timeliness Coefficient and Accounting Conservatism (August 1, 2013). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-65, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2304913
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Ali , L Hwang , M Trombley
Arbitrage risk and the book-to-market anomaly
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , p. 355 - 373 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Bachelier
Théorie de la spéculation
Annales Scientifiques de l'École Normale Supérieure , volume 3 , p. 21 - 86 Posted: 1900
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 177 Posted: 1968
Crossref
R Ball , S Kothari , V Nikolaev
On estimating conditional conservatism
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 755 - 787 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
627
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,263
RANK
2,892
9 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies