Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ball and Brown (1968): A Retrospective

FIRN Research Paper

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2013 Last revised: 15 Sep 2013

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Philip R. Brown

UWA Business School, M250; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: September 3, 2013

Abstract

This essay provides a retrospective view on our co-authored paper, Ball and Brown (1968). The retrospective was commissioned by Gregory Waymire, then President of the American Accounting Association. It describes how we both came to be PhD students at the University of Chicago and set about researching the relation between earnings and share prices. It outlines the background against which we conducted the research, including the largely a priori accounting research literature at the time and the electric atmosphere and radical new ideas then in full bloom at Chicago. We describe some of the principal research choices we made, and their strengths and weaknesses. We also describe the reception our research received and how the related literature subsequently unfolded.

Keywords: Ball-Brown, earnings, usefulness, timeliness, anomalies, event study

JEL Classification: B30, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray and Brown, Philip R., Ball and Brown (1968): A Retrospective (September 3, 2013). FIRN Research Paper, Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2304409 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2304409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D Anderson , R Leftwich
Securities and Obscurities: A case for reform of the law of company accounts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 330 - 340 Posted: 1974
Crossref
R Ball
Changes in accounting techniques and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 1972
Crossref
R Ball
Anomalies in relationships between securities' yields and yield-surrogates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 6 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 1978
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,405
ABSTRACT VIEWS
28,502
RANK
3,697
8 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Rate Regulation, Competition, and Loss Reserve Discounting by Property-Casualty Insurers

By Karen K. Nelson

Do We Really 'Know' What We Think We Know? A Case Study of Seminal Research and its Subsequent Overgeneralization

By Linda Smith Bamber, Theodore E. Christensen, ...

The Effects of Uncertainty on the Informativeness of Earnings: Evidence from the Insurance Industry in the Wake of Catastrophic Events

By Theodore E. Christensen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies