Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market-Based Credit Ratings

31 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2013

Drew Creal

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business - Econometrics and Statistics

Robert Gramacy

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Ruey S. Tsay

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business - Econometrics and Statistics

Date Written: November 2, 2012

Abstract

We present a methodology for rating the credit worthiness of public companies in the U.S. from the prices of traded assets. Our approach uses asset pricing data to impute a term structure of risk neutral survival functions or default probabilities. Firms are then clustered into ratings categories based on their survival functions using a functional clustering algorithm. This allows all public firms whose assets are traded to be directly rated by market participants. For firms whose assets are not traded, we show how they can be indirectly rated through the use of matching estimators. We also show how the resulting ratings can be used to construct loss distributions for portfolios of bonds. Our approach has the advantages of being transparent, computationally tractable, simple to implement, and easy to interpret economically.

Keywords: credit ratings, clustering, credit default swaps, default risk, survival functions

JEL Classification: C32, G32

Suggested Citation:

Creal, Drew and Gramacy, Robert and Tsay, Ruey S., Market-Based Credit Ratings (November 2, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2310260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2310260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Abadie , G W Imbens
Large sample properties of matching estimators for average treatment effects
Econometrica , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 267 Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Altman , N Fargher , E Kalotay
A simple empirical model of equity-implied probabilities of default. Unpublished manuscript, Stern School of Business Posted: 2010
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Blanco , S Brennan , I W Marsh
An empirical analysis of the dynamic relation between investment-grade bonds and credit-default swaps
The Journal of Finance , volume 60 , p. 2255 - 2281 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,048
RANK
189,693
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Observation Driven Mixed-Measurement Dynamic Factor Models with an Application to Credit Risk

By Drew Creal, Bernd Schwaab, ...

Stationarity and Ergodicity of Univariate Generalized Autoregressive Score Processes

By Francisco Blasques, Siem Jan Koopman, ...

Time-Varying Systemic Risk: Evidence from a Dynamic Copula Model of CDS Spreads

By Dong Hwan Oh and Andrew J. Patton

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies