Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tests for Parameter Instability in Dynamic Factor Models

67 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2013 Last revised: 13 Mar 2014

Xu Han

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Economics & Finance

Atsushi Inoue

Southern Methodist University

Date Written: March 12, 2014

Abstract

We develop tests for structural breaks of factor loadings in dynamic factor models. We focus on the joint null hypothesis that all factor loadings are constant over time. Because the number of factor loading parameters goes to infinity as the sample size grows, conventional tests cannot be used. Based on the fact that the presence of a structural change in factor loadings yields a structural change in second moments of factors obtained from the full sample principal component estimation, we reduce the infinite-dimensional problem into a finite-dimensional one and our statistic compares the pre- and post-break subsample second moments of estimated factors. Our test is consistent under the alternative hypothesis in which a fraction of or all factor loadings have structural changes. The Monte Carlo results show that our test has good finite-sample size and power.

Keywords: factor models, structural break

JEL Classification: C12, C33

Suggested Citation:

Han, Xu and Inoue, Atsushi, Tests for Parameter Instability in Dynamic Factor Models (March 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2314338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2314338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
D W K Andrews
Tests for Parameter Instability and Structural Change with Unknown Change Point
Econometrica , volume 61 , p. 821 - 856 Posted: 1993
Crossref
D W. K. &amp; W Andrews , Ploberger
Optimal Tests When a Nuisance Parameter Is Present Only Under the Alternative
Econometrica , volume 62 Posted: 1994
Crossref
J Bai
Estimating Multiple Breaks One at a Time
Econometric Theory , volume 13 , p. 315 - 352 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J Bai
Inferential Theory for Factor Models of Large Dimensions
Econometrica , volume 71 , p. 135 - 172 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,405
RANK
337,747
11 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Generalized Dynamic Factor Model: One-Sided Estimation and Forecasting

By Mario Forni, Marc Hallin, ...

Arbitrage, Factor Structure, and Mean-Variance Analysis on Large Asset Markets

By Gary Chamberlain and Michael Rothschild

Arbitrage and Mean-Variance Analysis on Large Asset Markets

By Gary Chamberlain and Michael Rothschild

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies