Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selecting the Correct Number of Factors in Approximate Factor Models: The Large Panel Case with Group Bridge Estimators

37 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2013

Mehmet Caner

North Carolina State University - Department of Economics

Xu Han

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Economics & Finance

Date Written: August 20, 2013

Abstract

This paper proposes a group bridge estimator to select the correct number of factors in approximate factor models. It contributes to the literature on shrinkage estimation and factor models by extending the conventional bridge estimator from a single equation to a large panel context. The proposed estimator can consistently estimate the factor loadings of relevant factors and shrink the loadings of irrelevant factors to zero with a probability approaching one. Hence, it provides a consistent estimate for the number of factors. We also propose an algorithm for the new estimator; Monte Carlo experiments show that our algorithm converges reasonably fast and that our estimator has very good performance in small samples. An empirical example is also presented based on a commonly used US macroeconomic data set.

Keywords: bridge estimation, common factors, selection consistency

Suggested Citation:

Caner, Mehmet and Han, Xu, Selecting the Correct Number of Factors in Approximate Factor Models: The Large Panel Case with Group Bridge Estimators (August 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2314363 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2314363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L Alessi , M Barigozzi , M Capasso
Improved Penalization for Determining the Number of Factors in Approximate Factor Models
Statistics and Probability Letters , volume 80 , p. 1806 - 1813 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Amengual , M Watson
Consistent Estimation of the Number of Dynamic Factors in a Large N And T Panel
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 96 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Bai
Inferential Theory for Factor Models of Large Dimensions
Econometrica , volume 71 , p. 135 - 173 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bai , S Ng
Determining the Number of Factors in Approximate Factor Models
Econometrica , volume 70 , p. 191 - 221 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,560
RANK
724,439
5 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric Model Construction, Estimation & Selection eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Generalized Dynamic Factor Model: One-Sided Estimation and Forecasting

By Mario Forni, Marc Hallin, ...

Arbitrage, Factor Structure, and Mean-Variance Analysis on Large Asset Markets

By Gary Chamberlain and Michael Rothschild

Arbitrage and Mean-Variance Analysis on Large Asset Markets

By Gary Chamberlain and Michael Rothschild

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies