Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Network Systemic Risk Contributions

57 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2013

Nikolaus Hautsch

University of Vienna - Department of Statistics and Operations Research

Julia Schaumburg

VU University Amsterdam; Tinbergen Institute

Melanie Schienle

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: August 25, 2013

Abstract

We propose the realized systemic risk beta as a measure for financial companies’ contribution to systemic risk given network interdependence between firms’ tail risk exposures. Conditional on statistically pre-identified network spillover effects and market and balance sheet information, we define the realized systemic risk beta as the total time-varying marginal effect of a firm’s Value-at-Risk (VaR) on the system’s VaR. Suitable statistical inference reveals a multitude of relevant risk spillover channels and determines companies’ systemic importance in the U.S. financial system. Our approach can be used to monitor companies’ systemic importance allowing for a transparent macroprudential regulation.

Keywords: systemic risk contribution, systemic risk network, Value at Risk, network topology, two-step quantile regression, time-varying parameters

JEL Classification: G01, G18, G32, G38, C21, C51, C63

Suggested Citation:

Hautsch, Nikolaus and Schaumburg, Julia and Schaumburg, Julia and Schienle, Melanie, Financial Network Systemic Risk Contributions (August 25, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2315826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2315826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
The upper three panels depict time-varying systemic risk beta's, time-varying VaRs and the product of the two, realized systemic risk beta's, for American International Group (AIG). The lower three panels show the respective three time series for Bank of America , volume 8
Systemic Risk Impact of LEH &ML before the Crisis Time (year.month)
the products of estimated systemic risk betas and individual VaRs, of Lehman Brothers (LEH, red) and Merrill Lynch (ML, green)
Realized systemic risk betas, i.e , volume 9 Posted: 2000
VaR: Merrill Lynch Time VaR Posted: 2000
Load more
45 Citations
Nikolaus Hautsch , Julia Schaumburg , Melanie Schienle
Forecasting Systemic Impact in Financial Networks
28 Pages · Posted: 26 Aug 2013 · Downloads: 137
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gregor N. F. Weiss , Christopher Bierth , Felix Irresberger
Systemic Risk of Insurers Around the Globe
39 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2014 · Downloads: 340
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel Felix Ahelegbey , Monica Billio , Roberto Casarin
Bayesian Graphical Models for Structural Vector Autoregressive Processes
University Ca' Foscari of Venice, Dept. of Economics Research Paper Series No. 36/WP/2012 · 41 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2013 · Last revised: 30 Sep 2014 · Downloads: 441
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jin-Chuan Duan , Changhao Zhang
Cascading Defaults and Systemic Risk of a Banking Network
41 Pages · Posted: 13 Jun 2013 · Last revised: 9 Nov 2013 · Downloads: 334
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,034
RANK
208,776
45 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Capital Markets - Risk eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Interbank Exposures: Quantifying the Risk of Contagion

By Craig Furfine

Estimating Bilateral Exposures in the German Interbank Market: Is There a Danger of Contagion?

By Christian Upper and Andreas Worms

Liquidity Risk and Contagion

By Rodrigo Cifuentes, Gianluigi Ferrucci, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies