Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Volatility Forecasts: Do Volatility Estimators and Evaluation Methods Matter?

Journal of Futures Markets, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2013 Last revised: 17 Sep 2013

I-Ming Jiang

Yuan Ze University - College of Management

Jui-Cheng Hung

Chinese Culture University - Department of Banking and Finance

Chuan-San Wang

National Taiwan University - The Department and Graduate Institute of Accounting

Date Written: August 27, 2013

Abstract

This study investigates the volatility forecasting abilities of return-based and range-based estimators for two stock indices and two individual stocks in the U.S. stock market. The forecasting performances are evaluated by two robust statistical loss functions, and further by financial applications in risk management and option pricing. Consistent with previous studies, the range-based volatility forecasts outperform in terms of statistical evaluation, Value-at-Risk calculation, and option pricing. However, return-based volatility forecasts prove superior in the evaluation of market risk capital requirements.

Keywords: Range-based and return-based estimators, risk management, option pricing, market risk capital requirements

JEL Classification: C52, C53, G17

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, I-Ming and Hung, Jui-Cheng and Wang, Chuan-San, Volatility Forecasts: Do Volatility Estimators and Evaluation Methods Matter? (August 27, 2013). Journal of Futures Markets, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2316645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Y Aït-Sahalia , P A Mykland , L Zhang
How often to sample a continuous-time process in the presence of market microstructure noise
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 351 - 416 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev
Intraday periodicity and volatility persistence in financial markets
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 4 , p. 115 - 158 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev
Answering the skeptics: Yes, standard volatility models do provide accurate forecasts
International Economic Review , volume 39 , p. 885 - 905 Posted: 1998
Crossref
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , P Labys
The distribution of exchange rate realized volatility
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 96 , p. 42 - 55 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,268
RANK
453,964
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies