Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PLS Path Modeling and Evolutionary Segmentation

Journal of Business Research, Vol. 66, No. 9, 2013, pp. 1318-1324

Posted: 28 Aug 2013

Christian M. Ringle

Hamburg University of Technology (TUHH)

Marko Sarstedt

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg; University of Newcastle (Australia)

Rainer Schlittgen

Institut for Statistik and Econometry

Charles R. Taylor

Independent

Date Written: August 27, 2013

Abstract

Applications of the partial least squares (PLS) path modeling approach — which have gained increasing dissemination in business research — usually build on the assumption that the data stem from a single population. However, in empirical applications, this assumption of homogeneity is unrealistic. Analyses on the aggregate data level ignore the existence of groups with substantial differences and more often than not result in misleading interpretations and false conclusions. This study introduces a genetic algorithm segmentation method for PLS path modeling (PLS-GAS) that accounts for the critical issue of unobserved heterogeneity in the path model's estimates of relations. The results from computational experiments allow a primary assessment to substantiate that PLS-GAS effectively uncovers unobserved heterogeneity. Significantly distinctive segment-specific path model estimates further foster the development of differentiated results that render more effective recommendations.

Keywords: Partial least squares, Path modeling, Genetic algorithm, Segmentation, Heterogeneity

JEL Classification: A00

Suggested Citation:

Ringle, Christian M. and Sarstedt, Marko and Schlittgen, Rainer and Taylor, Charles R., PLS Path Modeling and Evolutionary Segmentation (August 27, 2013). Journal of Business Research, Vol. 66, No. 9, 2013, pp. 1318-1324, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2316575
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,289
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies