Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multivariate Hill Estimators

41 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2013 Last revised: 24 Apr 2015

Yves Dominicy

Université libre de Bruxelles - Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management - ECARES

Pauliina Ilmonen

Aalto University - Department of Mathematics and Systems Analysis

David Veredas

Vlerick Business School

Date Written: April 24, 2015

Abstract

We propose two classes of semi-parametric estimators for the tail index of a regular varying elliptical random vector. The first one is based on the distance between a tail probability contour and the observations outside this contour. We denote it as the class of separating estimators. The second one is based on the norm of an arbitrary order. We denote it as the class of angular estimators. We show the asymptotic properties and the finite sample performances of both classes. We also illustrate the separating estimators with an empirical application to 21 world-wide financial market indexes.

Keywords: Hill estimator, elliptical distributions, Minimum Covariance Determinant, tail index

JEL Classification: C14, C51, G15

Suggested Citation:

Dominicy, Yves and Ilmonen, Pauliina and Veredas, David, Multivariate Hill Estimators (April 24, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2318957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2318957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
M F Alves , M I Gomes , L De Haan , C Neves
A note on second order conditions in extreme value theory: linking general and heavy tail conditions
REVSTAT Statistical Journal , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 285 - 304 Posted: 2007
L Breiman
On some limit theorems similar to the arc-sin law
Theory of Probability and its Applications , volume 10 , p. 323 - 331 Posted: 1965
Crossref
F Caeiro , M Gomes
Minimum-variance reduced-bias tail index and high quantile estimation
REVSTAT-Statistical Journal , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2008
J Cai , J Einmahl , L De Haan
Estimation of extreme risk regions under multivariate regular variation
The Annals of Statistics , volume 39 , p. 1803 - 1826 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Wesley Phoa
Extreme Events in Finance
, p. 391 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Matias Heikkilä , Yves Dominicy , Pauliina Ilmonen
On Asymptotic Properties of the Separating Hill Estimator
15 Pages · Posted: 10 Dec 2015 · Downloads: 66
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,030
RANK
196,969
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Systemic Risk: A Survey

By Olivier De Bandt and Philipp Hartmann

Systemic Risk: A Survey

By Olivier De Bandt and Philipp Hartmann

Asset Market Linkages in Crisis Periods

By Philipp Hartmann, Stefan Straetmans, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies