Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Types of Investor Uncertainty and Cost of Equity

43 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2013 Last revised: 17 May 2017

Chad R. Larson

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Robert J. Resutek

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Date Written: April 1, 2017

Abstract

Asset pricing theory notes that different types of investor uncertainty can have directionally different effects on cost of equity. Empirical studies of costs of equity, however, generally assume that different types of uncertainty are independent or have the same directional effect. We relax this assumption and jointly test the effects of two types of investor uncertainty, one related to future firm performance and unrelated to accruals (cash flow uncertainty) and one directly related to accrual estimation errors (information quality uncertainty). Distinct from prior studies, our uncertainty estimates are based on a matched-firm design that minimize the mechanical relation between the two uncertainty variables. We find a strong negative relation between cash flow uncertainty and multiple estimates of cost of equity. With respect to information quality uncertainty, we find a strong positive association with both expected stock returns and implied costs of equity, but only in settings that control for cash flow uncertainty. Collectively, our study suggests the need to consider different types of investor uncertainty when examining how investor uncertainty affects cost of equity.

Keywords: earnings quality, earnings uncertainty, earnings management, information uncertainty

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Larson, Chad Russell and Resutek, Robert J., Types of Investor Uncertainty and Cost of Equity (April 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2318062 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2318062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D C Donelson , R J Resutek
The predictive qualities of earnings volatility and earnings uncertainty
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 470 - 500 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Easley , M O&apos;hara
Information and the cost of capital
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1553 - 1583 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E F Fama , K R French
New lists: Fundamentals and survival rates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 73 , p. 229 - 269 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E F Fama , K R French
The cross-section of expected stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 427 - 465 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,467
RANK
206,808
5 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Risk Taking by Mutual Funds as a Response to Incentives

By Judith A. Chevalier and Glenn Ellison

Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets

By Richard C. Green and Jonathan Berk

Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets

By Richard C. Green and Jonathan Berk

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies