Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Contagion and Asset Pricing

CAMA working paper no 61/2013

41 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2013

Renee Fry-McKibbin

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy; Australian National University (ANU) - Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis (CAMA), Crawford School of Public Policy

Vance L. Martin

University of Melbourne - Department of Economics; Australian National University (ANU) - Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis (CAMA)

Chrismin Tang

University of Melbourne; Australian National University (ANU) - Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis (CAMA)

Date Written: September 2013

Abstract

Asset market interconnectedness can give rise to significant contagion risks during periods of financial crises that extend beyond the risks associated with changes in volatilities and correlation. These channels include the transmission of shocks operating through changes in the higher order co-moments of asset returns, including changes in co-skewness arising from changes in the interaction between volatility and average returns across asset markets. These additional contagion channels have nontrivial implications for the pricing of options through changes in the payoff probability structure and more generally, in the management of financial risks. The effects of incorrectly pricing risk has proved to be significant during many financial crises, including the sub-prime crisis from mid 2007 to mid 2008, the Great Recession beginning 2008 and the European debt crisis from 2010. Using an exchange options model, the effects of changes in the co-moments of asset returns across asset markets are investigated with special emphasis given to understanding the effects on hedging risk during financial crises. The results reveal that by not correctly pricing the risks arising from higher order moments during financial crises, there is significant mis-pricing of options, while hedged portfolios during non-crisis periods become exposed to price movements in times of crises.

Keywords: financial crises, contagion, exchange options, Delta hedging

JEL Classification: C51, G15

Suggested Citation:

Fry-McKibbin, Renee and Martin, Vance L. and Tang, Chrismin and Tang, Chrismin, Financial Contagion and Asset Pricing (September 2013). CAMA working paper no 61/2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2319168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2319168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,997
RANK
484,103
10 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies