Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large Panel Data Models with Cross-Sectional Dependence: A Survey

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4371

55 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2013

Alexander Chudik

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas

M. Hashem Pesaran

University of Cambridge; University of Southern California - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 30, 2013

Abstract

This paper provides an overview of the recent literature on estimation and inference in large panel data models with cross-sectional dependence. It reviews panel data models with strictly exogenous regressors as well as dynamic models with weakly exogenous regressors. The paper begins with a review of the concepts of weak and strong cross-sectional dependence, and discusses the exponent of cross-sectional dependence that characterizes the different degrees of cross-sectional dependence. It considers a number of alternative estimators for static and dynamic panel data models, distinguishing between factor and spatial models of cross-sectional dependence. The paper also provides an overview of tests of independence and weak cross-sectional dependence.

Keywords: large panels, weak and strong cross-sectional dependence, factor structure, spatial dependence, tests of cross-sectional dependence

JEL Classification: C310, C330

Suggested Citation:

Chudik, Alexander and Pesaran, M. Hashem, Large Panel Data Models with Cross-Sectional Dependence: A Survey (August 30, 2013). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4371, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2319840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2319840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
Experiments with lagged dependent variable and other weakly exogenous regressors
Section 6 for further details. In particular, note that null of weak cross-sectional dependence is characterized by = 0 and = 0:25, with alternatives of semi-strong and strong cross-sectional dependence given by values of 1=2
Econometrica , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 1203 - 1207 Posted: 2013
D Amengual , M W Watson
Consistent estimation of the number of dynamic factors in a large N and T panel
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 96 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D Andrews
Cross section regression with common shocks
Econometrica , volume 73 , p. 1551 - 1585 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,076
RANK
35,484
44 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

This Time They are Different: Heterogeneity and Nonlinearity in the Relationship between Debt and Growth

By Markus Eberhardt and Andrea Presbitero

Large Panel Data Models with Cross-Sectional Dependence: A Survey

By Alexander Chudik and M. Hashem Pesaran

Signs of Impact Effects in Time Series Regression Models

By M. Hashem Pesaran and Ron Smith

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies