Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tail Risk and Asset Prices

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-67

55 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2013 Last revised: 11 Jan 2014

Bryan T. Kelly

Yale SOM; AQR Capital Management, LLC; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Hao Jiang

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2013

Abstract

We propose a new measure of time-varying tail risk that is directly estimable from the cross section of returns. We exploit firm-level price crashes every month to identify common fluctuations in tail risk across stocks. Our tail measure is significantly correlated with tail risk measures extracted from S&P 500 index options, but is available for a longer sample since it is calculated from equity data. We show that tail risk has strong predictive power for aggregate market returns: A one standard deviation increase in tail risk forecasts an increase in excess market returns of 4.5% over the following year. Cross-sectionally, stocks with high loadings on past tail risk earn an annual three-factor alpha 5.4% higher than stocks with low tail risk loadings. These findings are consistent with asset pricing theories that relate equity risk premia to rare disasters or other forms of tail risk.

Keywords: tail risk, time-varying risk, conditional expected returns, cross section of returns

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G13, G17

Suggested Citation:

Kelly, Bryan T. and Jiang, Hao, Tail Risk and Asset Prices (August 1, 2013). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-67, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2321243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2321243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
V Akgiray , G G Booth
The stable-law model of stock returns
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , p. 51 - 57 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Linda Allen , G Turan , Yi Bali , Tang
Does Systemic Risk in the Financial Sector Predict Future Economic Downturns?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 10 , p. 3000 - 3036 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Ang , G Bekaert
Stock return predictability: Is it there?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 3 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ang , J Chen , Y Xing
Downside Risk
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , issue 4 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,135
RANK
11,765
33 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Predictive Regressions

By Robert F. Stambaugh

Consumption, Aggregate Wealth and Expected Stock Returns

By Martin Lettau and Sydney C. Ludvigson

Risks for the Long Run: A Potential Resolution of Asset Pricing Puzzles

By Ravi Bansal and Amir Yaron

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies