Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Supply Approach to Valuation

Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2013

Frederico Belo

INSEAD; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Chen Xue

University of Cincinnati

Lu Zhang

Ohio State University - Fisher College of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: September 1, 2013

Abstract

A new methodology for equity valuation arises from the perspective of managers’ supply of capital assets. Under q-theory, managers optimally adjust the supply of assets to changes in their market value. The first-order condition of investment then provides a valuation equation that infers asset prices from managers’ costs of supplying the assets. This equation fits well the Tobin’s q levels across many testing assets, including portfolios formed on q. With current investment-to-capital as the only input, the supply approach does not require cash flow forecasts or discount rate estimates, both of which are notoriously difficult to obtain in practice.

Keywords: Valuation, Tobin's q, investment, structural estimation

JEL Classification: D21, E22, G12

Suggested Citation:

Belo, Frederico and Xue, Chen and Zhang, Lu, A Supply Approach to Valuation (September 1, 2013). Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2322023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A B Abel
Optimal Investment Under Uncertainty
American Economic Review , volume 73 , p. 228 - 261 Posted: 1983
A B Abel , J C Eberly
A Unified Model of Investment Under Uncertainty
American Economic Review , volume 84 , p. 1369 - 84 Posted: 1994
Crossref
A B Abel , J C Eberly
Q for the Long Run Posted: 2002
R Albuquerque , N Wang
Agency Conflicts, Investment, and Asset Pricing
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,906
RANK
214,562
4 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Optimal Investment, Growth Options, and Security Returns

By Jonathan Berk, Richard C. Green, ...

The Value Premium

By Lu Zhang

A Cross-Sectional Test of a Production-Based Asset Pricing Model

By John H. Cochrane

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies