Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying Random Coefficient Models to Strategy Research: Testing for Firm Heterogeneity, Predicting Firm-Specific Coefficients, and Estimating Strategy Trade-Offs

Harvard Business School Strategy Unit Working Paper No. 14-022

Robert H. Smith School Research Paper

49 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2013

Juan Alcacer

Harvard University - Strategy Unit

Wilbur Chung

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Ashton Hawk

Leeds School of Business, University of Colorado Boulder

Gonçalo Pacheco-de-Almeida

HEC Paris - Strategy & Business Policy

Date Written: August 30, 2013

Abstract

Although Strategy research aims to understand how firm actions have differential effects on performance, most empirical research estimates the average effects of these actions across firms. This paper promotes Random Coefficients Models (RCMs) as an ideal empirical methodology to study firm heterogeneity in Strategy research. Specifically, we highlight and illustrate three main benefits that RCMs offer to Strategy researchers — testing firm heterogeneity, predicting firm-specific effects, and estimating trade-offs in strategy — using both synthetic and actual data-sets. These examples showcase the potential uses of RCMs to test and build theory in Strategy, as well as to perform exploratory and definitive analyses of firm heterogeneity.

Suggested Citation:

Alcacer, Juan and Chung, Wilbur C. and Hawk, Ashton and Pacheco-de-Almeida, Gonçalo, Applying Random Coefficient Models to Strategy Research: Testing for Firm Heterogeneity, Predicting Firm-Specific Coefficients, and Estimating Strategy Trade-Offs (August 30, 2013). Harvard Business School Strategy Unit Working Paper No. 14-022, Robert H. Smith School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2323578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2323578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
B Anand , D Byzalov
Systematic Heterogeneity versus Average Effects in the Returns to Diversification. Working paper Posted: 2012
D Besanko , D Dranove , M Shanley , S Schaefer
The Economics of Strategy Posted: 2007
W Chung , J Alcacer
Knowledge Seeking and Location Choice of Foreign Direct Investment in the United States
Management Science , volume 48 , issue 12 , p. 1534 - 1554 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K Cool , I Dierickx
Rivalry, strategic groups and firm profitability
Strategic Management Journal , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 60 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,220
RANK
220,473
6 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Strategy Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Pre-Entry Experience, Entry Timing and Product Technology Strategies in Explaining Firm Survival

By Barry L. Bayus and Rajshree Agarwal

Churn, Baby, Churn: Strategic Dynamics Among Dominant and Fringe Firms in a Segmented Industry

By John M. De Figueiredo and Brian S. Silverman

The Timing of Resource Development and Sustainable Competitive Advantage

By Gonçalo Pacheco-de-almeida and Peter B. Zemsky

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies