Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Nested Factor Model for Non-Linear Dependences in Stock Returns

23 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2013

Rémy Chicheportiche

Ecole Centrale Paris

Jean-Philippe Bouchaud

Capital Fund Management

Date Written: September 12, 2013

Abstract

The aim of our work is to propose a natural framework to account for all the empirically known properties of the multivariate distribution of stock returns. We define and study a "nested factor model", where the linear factors part is standard, but where the log-volatility of the linear factors and of the residuals are themselves endowed with a factor structure and residuals. We propose a calibration procedure to estimate these log-vol factors and the residuals. We find that whereas the number of relevant linear factors is relatively large (10 or more), only two or three log-vol factors emerge in our analysis of the data. In fact, a minimal model where only one log-vol factor is considered is already very satisfactory, as it accurately reproduces the properties of bivariate copulas, in particular the dependence of the medial-point on the linear correlation coefficient, as reported in Chicheportiche and Bouchaud (2012). We have tested the ability of the model to predict Out-of-Sample the risk of non-linear portfolios, and found that it performs significantly better than other schemes.

Suggested Citation:

Chicheportiche, Rémy and Bouchaud, Jean-Philippe, A Nested Factor Model for Non-Linear Dependences in Stock Returns (September 12, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2324754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2324754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Allez , J P Bouchaud
Individual and collective stock dynamics: intra-day seasonalities
New Journal of Physics Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Bartz , K Hatrick , C W Hesse , K R Müller , S Lemm
Directional Variance Adjustment: improving covariance estimates for high-dimensional portfolio optimization. arXiv preprint qfin Posted: 2012
N Blomqvist
On a measure of dependence between two random variables
The Annals of Mathematical Statistics , volume 21 , p. 593 - 600 Posted: 1950
Crossref
J P Bouchaud , M Potters
Theory of Financial Risk and Derivative Pricing: from Statistical Physics to Risk Management Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,433
RANK
481,162
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies