Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry-Specific Discretionary Accruals and the Accruals Anomaly

54 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2013 Last revised: 16 Sep 2013

Atif Ikram

Wayne State University - School of Business Administration

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

I motivate and implement a methodology that decomposes a firm’s discretionary accruals into a firm-specific and an industry-specific component. I find that the “accruals anomaly” (Sloan 1996) – the finding that firms with high discretionary accruals subsequently earn negative abnormal returns – is driven by firm-specific discretionary accruals. More importantly, although industry-specific discretionary accruals do not contribute directly towards the anomaly, I find that it is precisely when industry-specific discretionary accruals are high that firms with large firm-specific discretionary accruals subsequently earn negative abnormal returns. The results suggest that industry-wide use of high discretionary accruals adversely affects investors’ tendency to fairly price high firm-specific discretionary accruals, possibly due to increased search costs associated with detecting earnings manipulation during such times. The results are also consistent with the notion that firms use high (firm-specific) discretionary accruals to convey value-relevant information to investors when most firms in the industry have relatively low discretionary accruals. The findings potentially have an important bearing on the earnings management literature that has used high discretionary accruals as a proxy for earnings manipulation.

Keywords: Accruals anomaly, earnings management, market efficiency, price discovery

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ikram, Atif, Industry-Specific Discretionary Accruals and the Accruals Anomaly (2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2325722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2325722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S Anwer , S M Ahmed , Jian Khalid Nainar , Zhou
Do analysts' earnings forecasts fully reflect the information in accruals?
Canadian Journal of Administrative Science , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 329 - 342 Posted: 2005
B Badertscher , D Collins , T Lys
Discretionary accounting choices and the predictive ability of accruals with respect to future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 330 - 352 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
The effect of relative performance evaluation on earnings management: a game-theoretic approach
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 19 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E Bartov , F Gul , J Tsui
Discretionary accruals models and audit qualifications
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , p. 421 - 452 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,989
RANK
231,609
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies