Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Indexes and the Four-Factor Model

The Journal of Index Investing Summer 2013, Vol. 4, No. 1: pp. 82-89 DOI: 10.3905/jii.2013.4.1.082

Posted: 29 Sep 2013

Bruce A. Costa

University of Montana - Department of Accounting and Finance

Keith Jakob

University of Montana - Department of Accounting and Finance

Lee Tangedahl

University of Montana

Date Written: September 27, 2013

Abstract

Using a four-factor model and newly available European risk factors, we generate alphas and factor loadings for a set of European stock market indexes. Indexes are essentially unmanaged portfolios, therefore their alphas should be insignificant. Since unmanaged indexes do not follow any particular momentum strategy, factor loadings for the momentum factor should also be insignificant. Earlier academic research shows that many U.S. indexes have significant alphas and factor loadings. In this study we report significant alphas and many significant factor loadings on the momentum factor for European indexes. We also find that the four-factor model with European data has lower explanatory power, and the factor loadings for European indexes differ dramatically from the factor loadings for U.S. indexes. Our findings indicate that a European fund’s alpha and risk factor loadings must be systematically adjusted relative to its benchmark index.

Suggested Citation:

Costa, Bruce A. and Jakob, Keith and Tangedahl, Lee, European Indexes and the Four-Factor Model (September 27, 2013). The Journal of Index Investing Summer 2013, Vol. 4, No. 1: pp. 82-89 DOI: 10.3905/jii.2013.4.1.082, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2332108
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies