Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Heterogeneous Agents and Long Horizon Features of Asset Prices

49 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2013

Blake LeBaron

Brandeis University - International Business School

Date Written: September 29, 2013

Abstract

Heterogeneous agent models for financial markets have provided explanations for many empirical regularities of relatively high frequency (hourly/daily) financial time series. They have been much quieter when it comes to longer range features. This paper examines a simplified computational heterogeneous agent model in the context of various longer range time series properties for equity returns. The model is compared to a specially created long range data set, and is found to perform well in terms of replicating features, and even revealing some aspects of the data that have not been well quantified to date. By matching empirical properties at both short and long horizons this sets a higher standard in terms of validation which this model is able to match.

Keywords: learning, agent-based financial markets, evolution, heterogeneous gain

JEL Classification: G12, D84

Suggested Citation:

LeBaron, Blake D., Heterogeneous Agents and Long Horizon Features of Asset Prices (September 29, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2333098 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2333098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , P F Christoffersen , F X Diebold
Volatility and correlation forecasting , p. 778 - 878 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Anufriev , P Dindo
Wealth-driven selection in a financial market with heterogeneous agents
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 73 , p. 327 - 358 Posted: 2010
Crossref
F Black
Studies of stock price volatility changes
Proceedings of the American Statistical Association, Business and Economics Statistics Section , p. 177 - 181 Posted: 1976
T Bollerslev , R F Engle , D B Nelson
ARCH models , volume 4 , p. 2959 - 3038 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,389
RANK
724,439
4 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies