Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Markets Valuation and Accounting Performance of Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) Award Winners

Decision Support Systems, Forthcoming

13 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2013

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Yaniv Konchitchki

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Jeff L. McMullin

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: September 30, 2013

Abstract

Researchers have used the stock price reaction to firms' disclosures of investment in information technology to investigate the value of those investments. This paper extends that research to include knowledge management (KM). In particular, we test whether and how KM is valued by market participants by examining the stock market reaction and future performance of companies receiving the “Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise” (MAKE) award, which recognizes companies that excel at KM. MAKE awards are generated based on opinions gathered from experts using the Delphi method, a well-known group decision support tool. We find that MAKE winners: (1) experience positive abnormal returns around the award announcement, (2) report superior operating performance relative to their peers subsequent to the receipt of the award, (3) receive upward analyst forecast revisions following the award, (4) experience a positive upward stock price drift following the award, and (5) that the market has taken time to learn how to process and interpret information useful in valuing KM. Thus, our findings contribute to the literature by finding that market participants value KM and KM apparently positively influences accounting performance indicators. In addition, a unique feature of our study is that we investigate the market's response to information gathered using the Delphi method, an information source not previously investigated in stock price reaction literature.

Keywords: Capital markets, Knowledge management, Stock valuation, Asset pricing, MAKE award winners, Market study, Delphi method

JEL Classification: D83, E37, G12, G14, G17, M41

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Konchitchki, Yaniv and McMullin, Jeff L. and O'Leary, Daniel E., Capital Markets Valuation and Accounting Performance of Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) Award Winners (September 30, 2013). Decision Support Systems, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2333156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M Alavi , D E Leidner
Review: knowledge management and knowledge management systems: conceptual foundations and research issues
Management Information Systems Quarterly , volume 25 , p. 107 - 136 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Knowledge Management: From Brain to Business
Asian Productivity Organization (APO) Posted: 2007
S Balasubramanian , I Mathur , R Thakur
The impact of high-quality firm achievements on shareholder value: focus on Malcolm Baldrige and J. D. Power and Associates awards
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , volume 33 , p. 413 - 422 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball
The development, accomplishments and limitations of the theory of stock market efficiency
Managerial Finance , volume 20 , p. 3 - 48 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,472
RANK
161,650
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies