Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Pricing of Firms with Expected Losses/Profits: The Role of January

The Journal of Business Finance & Accounting

55 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2013 Last revised: 24 May 2018

Peng-Chia Chiu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Alex Nekrasov

University of Illinois Chicago

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: September 2017

Abstract

We examine the role of January in the relation between expected losses/profits and future stock returns. We predict and find that the relation between expected losses/profits and future returns reverses from the usual positive relation in non-January months to a negative one in January. The reverse January relation is consistent across sample years, is observed in the United States and international markets, and is incremental to other variables associated with January returns. At least part of the reverse January relation is explained by tax-loss selling. Further analysis shows that the reverse January relation results in a temporary price drift away from fundamental value. In other words, we find that abnormal positive (negative) future returns do not always indicate past under(over)valuation. Overall, our results illustrate the importance of controlling for the effect of January when examining how investors price expected losses/profits.

Keywords: expected losses/profits, return predictability, January effect, tax-loss selling

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G29, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Peng-Chia and Nekrasov, Alexander and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., The Pricing of Firms with Expected Losses/Profits: The Role of January (September 2017). The Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2333212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2333212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
C Asness , T J Moskowitz , L H Pedersen
Value and momentum everywhere
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , p. 929 - 985 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S G Badrinath , W G Lewellen
Evidence on tax-motivated securities trading behavior
The Journal of Finance , volume 46 , p. 369 - 382 Posted: 1991
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , E Bartov , L Faurel
Post loss/profit announcement drift
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Balkrishna , J Coulton , S Taylor
Accounting losses and earnings conservatism: Evidence from generally accepted accounting principles
Accounting & Finance , volume 47 , p. 381 - 400 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,926
RANK
142,640
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies