Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Fuzziness in Measurement Scale on Basic Statistical Inference

IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 423

20 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2013

Shubhabratha Das

Indian Institute of Management (IIMB), Bangalore

Date Written: October 8, 2013

Abstract

When a product, performance or service is rated or a behavioural response is sought, the alternatives typically do not have well-defined and universally understood demarcations. In this research, we address validity or inaccuracies in basic statistical inference based on such fuzzy data. In particular, we focus on inference on population mean and variance of single population as well as two population one-sample and also address the proportion problem in the paired test framework. In the testing of hypothesis framework, both the size and power of the tests are looked at. The results are mixed, as we observe that fuzziness of data impacts the inference substantially in some problems, while it has virtually no impact in some other problem domain.

Keywords: fuzzy, mean, one/two sample problem, power, proportion, scale, size, testing of hypothesis

Suggested Citation:

Das, Shubhabratha, Impact of Fuzziness in Measurement Scale on Basic Statistical Inference (October 8, 2013). IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 423, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2337430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2337430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Analysis and Management of Fuzzy Data
Maria A Gil , Dan A Ralescu , Series
Studies in Fuzziness and Soft Computing , volume 87 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A C Boyce
Methods of measuring teachers' efficiency, Fourteenth Yearbook Nat
Soc. Stud. Educ Posted: 1915
R Coppia , M A Gilb , H A L Kiersc
The fuzzy approach to statistical analysis
Computational Statistics & Data Analysis , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,459
RANK
644,694
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indian Institute of Management Bangalore Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies