Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Forecast Consistency

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2013 Last revised: 16 Nov 2013

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Charles Hsu

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 4, 2013

Abstract

We posit that management forecasts that are predictable transformations of realized earnings without random errors are more informative than unbiased forecasts which manifest small but unpredictable errors, even if biased forecasts are less accurate. Consistent with this intuition we find that managers who make consistent forecasting errors have a greater ability to influence investor reactions and analyst revisions, even after controlling for the effect of accuracy. This effect is more economically significant and statistically robust than that of forecast accuracy. More sophisticated investors and experienced analysts are found to have a better understanding of the benefits of consistent management forecasts.

Keywords: Management forecast consistency, management forecast accuracy, investor reactions, analyst revisions

JEL Classification: M41, C90

Suggested Citation:

Hilary, Gilles and Hsu, Charles and Wang, Rencheng, Management Forecast Consistency (October 4, 2013). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2337770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D W Collins , S P Kothari
An Analysis of Intertemporal and Cross-Sectional Determinants of Earnings Response Coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , p. 143 - 181 Posted: 1989
Crossref
M Drake , L Myers
Analysts' Accrual-Related Over-Optimism: Do Analyst Characteristics Play a Role?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 16 , p. 59 - 88 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C Hayn
The Information Content of losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 125 - 153 Posted: 1995
Crossref
D Hirst , L Koonce , S Venkataraman
Management Earnings Forecasts: A Review and Framework
Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , p. 315 - 338 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,671
RANK
134,833
14 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

CEO Overconfidence and Corporate Investment

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

CEO Overconfidence and Corporate Investment

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

Who Makes Acquisitions? CEO Overconfidence and the Market's Reaction

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies