Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cross-Quantilogram: Measuring Quantile Dependence and Testing Directional Predictability between Time Series

57 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2013 Last revised: 16 Jan 2014

Heejoon Han

Kyung Hee University - Department of Economics

Oliver B. Linton

University of Cambridge

Tatsushi Oka

Keio University

Yoon-Jae Whang

Seoul National University - School of Economics

Date Written: January 2014

Abstract

This paper considers the cross-quantilogram, which measures the quantile dependence between time series. We apply it to test the hypothesis that one time series has no directional predictability to another time series. We establish the asymptotic distribution of the cross quantilogram and the corresponding test statistic. The limiting distributions depend on nuisance parameters. To construct consistent confidence intervals we employ the stationary bootstrap procedure; we show the consistency of this bootstrap. Also, we consider the self-normalized approach, which is shown to be asymptotically pivotal under the null hypothesis of no predictability. We provide simulation studies and two empirical applications. First, we use the cross-quantilogram to detect predictability from stock variance to excess stock return. Compared to existing tools used in the literature of stock return predictability, our method provides more complete relationship between a predictor and stock return. Second, we investigate the systemic risk of individual financial institutions, such as JP Morgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and AIG.

Keywords: Quantile, Correlogram, Dependence, Predictability, Systemic risk

JEL Classification: C12, C13, C14, C22

Suggested Citation:

Han, Heejoon and Linton, Oliver B. and Oka, Tatsushi and Whang, Yoon-Jae, The Cross-Quantilogram: Measuring Quantile Dependence and Testing Directional Predictability between Time Series (January 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2338468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2338468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Notes: Same as Table 2
T Adrian , M K Brunnermeier
Sta¤ Reports Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Arcones
Second Order Representations of the Least Absolute Deviation Regression Estimator
Annals of the Institute of Statistical Mathematics , volume 50 , p. 87 - 117 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Dimitrios Bisias , Mark D. Flood , Andrew W. Lo , Stavros Valavanis
A Survey of Systemic Risk Analytics
U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Financial Research No. 0001 Pages: 165 Posted: 11 Jan 2012 Last revised: 16 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,684
RANK
188,511
31 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Optimal Bandwidth Selection in Heteroskedasticity-Autocorrelation Robust Testing

By Yixiao Sun, Peter C. B. Phillips, ...

Powerful Trend Function Tests that are Robust to Strong Serial Correlation with an Application to the Prebisch-Singer Hypothesis

By Helle Bunzel and Timothy J. Vogelsang

Consistent Hac Estimation and Robust Regression Testing Using Sharp Origin Kernels with No Truncation

By Peter C. B. Phillips, Yixiao Sun, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies