Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robust Measurement of (Heavy-Tailed) Risks: Theory and Implementation

37 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2013 Last revised: 23 Mar 2015

Judith C. Schneider

Leibniz Universität Hannover - Faculty of Economics and Management

Nikolaus Schweizer

Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 12, 2014

Abstract

Every model presents an approximation of reality and thus modeling inevitably implies model risk. We quantify model risk in a non-parametric way, i.e., in terms of the divergence from a so-called nominal model. Worst-case risk is defined as the maximal risk among all models within a given divergence ball. We derive several new results on how different divergence measures affect the worst case. Moreover, we present a novel, empirical way built on model confidence sets (MCS) for choosing the radius of the divergence ball around the nominal model, i.e., for calibrating the amount of model risk. We demonstrate the implications of heavy-tailed risks for the choice of the divergence measure and the empirical divergence estimation. For heavy-tailed risks, the simulation of the worst-case distribution is numerically intricate. We present an SMC (Sequential Monte Carlo) algorithm which is suitable for this task. An extended practical example, assessing the robustness of a hedging strategy, illustrates our approach.

Keywords: Robustness, Model Risk, Worst-Case Risk, Risk Management, Kullback-Leibler Divergence, Divergence Estimation, Sequential Monte Carlo

JEL Classification: G22, G32, C6

Suggested Citation:

Schneider, Judith C. and Schweizer, Nikolaus, Robust Measurement of (Heavy-Tailed) Risks: Theory and Implementation (August 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2339724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2339724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
E W Anderson , L P Hansen , T J Sargent
A quartet of semigroups for model specification, robustness, prices of risk, and model detection
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 123 Posted: 2003
Crossref
G Bakshi , C Cao , Z Chen
Empirical performance of alternative option pricing models
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 2003 - 2049 Posted: 1997
Crossref
G Barone-Adesi , R F Engle , L Mancini
A GARCH option pricing model with filtered historical simulation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 1223 - 1258 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Ben-Tal , D Den Hertog , A De Waegenaere , B Melenberg , G Rennen
Robust solutions of optimization problems affected by uncertain probabilities
Management Science , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 341 - 357 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,309
RANK
202,787
3 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies