Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting Changes in Profitability in the Oil and Gas Industry Using Ratios and Data Envelopment Analysis

Vol. 62, No. 1 Oil, Gas & Energy Quarterly p 1-20, September 2013

31 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2013

Haeyoung Shin

University of Houston Clear Lake

Ki-Young Jeong

University of Houston, Clear Lake

Michael Lacina

University of Houston-Clear Lake - School of Business

Youngwon Her

California State University, Northridge

Date Written: January 2013

Abstract

Fairfield and Yohn (2001) show that disaggregating change in return on assets into change in asset turnover and change in profit margin helps in predicting future profitability. For oil and gas firms, we disaggregate return on assets in the same manner and also use data envelopment analysis (DEA) to develop an efficiency measure. DEA is a linear programming based technique that allows us to measure the efficiency of oil and gas firms’ exploration and development efforts using net property, plant and equipment as an input and oil and gas footnote disclosures as outputs. For oil and gas firms that use the full cost method, we show that change in asset turnover does not help predict future profitability whereas our efficiency measure based on DEA is useful in forecasting future profitability. On the other hand, for firms that use the successful efforts method, we document that both change in asset turnover and our DEA-based efficiency measure are useful in predicting future profitability. Furthermore, the amount of oil reserves reported in the financial statement footnotes is useful in predicting future profitability for successful efforts firms but not for full cost firms. Prior researchers have argued that full cost accounting results in relatively low quality accounting numbers (Bandyopadhyay, 1994; Ramakrishnan and Thomas, 1992). Our results support this argument by showing that the usefulness of financial ratio analysis in forecasting full cost firms’ profitability is limited. Additionally, we show that for oil and gas firms, a DEA efficiency measure can provide information in forecasting change in future profitability that is incrementally useful to that provided by traditional ratios.

Keywords: Oil and Gas, Financial Statement Analysis, ROA, Asset Turnover, Data Envelpoment Analysis

JEL Classification: M41, L71, C67

Suggested Citation:

Shin, Haeyoung and Jeong, Ki-Young and Lacina, Michael and Her, Youngwon, Forecasting Changes in Profitability in the Oil and Gas Industry Using Ratios and Data Envelopment Analysis (January 2013). Vol. 62, No. 1 Oil, Gas & Energy Quarterly p 1-20, September 2013 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2341184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Jeffrey S Abarbanell , Brian J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Mimi L Alciatore
New Evidence on SFAS No. 69 and the Components of the Change in Reserve Value
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 639 - 656 Posted: 1993
Sati P Bandyopadhyay
Market Reaction to Earnings Announcements of Successful Efforts and Full Cost Firms in the Oil and Gas Industry
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 4 , p. 657 - 674 Posted: 1994
Jeffery P Boone
Oil and gas reserve value disclosures and bid-ask spreads
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 17 , p. 55 - 84 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,391
RANK
196,969
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies