Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Prices and Earnings: A History of Research

Annual Review of Financial Economics, Vol. 6: 343 -363 (Volume publication date December 2014).

41 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2013 Last revised: 26 Feb 2015

Patricia Dechow

USC Marshall School of Business

Richard G. Sloan

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Jenny Zha Giedt

George Washington University - School of Business

Date Written: October 18, 2013

Abstract

Accounting earnings summarize periodic corporate financial performance and are key determinants of stock prices. We review research on the usefulness of accounting earnings, including research on the link between accounting earnings and firm value and research on the usefulness of accounting earnings relative to other accounting and nonaccounting information. We also review research on the features of accounting earnings that make them useful to investors, including the accrual accounting process, fair value accounting, and the conservatism convention. We finish by summarizing research that identifies situations in which investors appear to misinterpret earnings and other accounting information, leading to security mispricing.

Keywords: earnings, stock prices, accruals, conservatism, fair value, anomalies

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dechow, Patricia and Sloan, Richard G. and Zha Giedt, Jenny, Stock Prices and Earnings: A History of Research (October 18, 2013). Annual Review of Financial Economics, Vol. 6: 343 -363 (Volume publication date December 2014). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2347193 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2347193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,599
ABSTRACT VIEWS
30,026
RANK
7,266
7 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies