Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hidden Skewness: On the Difficulty of Multiplicative Compounding Under Random Shocks

DIW Berlin Discussion Paper No. 1337

32 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2013 Last revised: 8 Feb 2016

Ludwig Ensthaler

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin)

Olga Nottmeyer

IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Managing Editor IZA World of Labor

Georg Weizsacker

Humboldt University Berlin; DIW Berlin

Christian Zankiewicz

German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 8, 2016

Abstract

Multiplicative growth processes that are subject to random shocks often have an asymmetric distribution of outcomes. In a series of incentivized laboratory experiments we show that a large majority of participants either strongly underestimate the asymmetry or ignore it completely. Participants misperceive the outcome distribution's spread to be too narrow-band and they estimate the median and the mode to lie too close to the distribution's center, failing to account for the compound nature of average growth. The observed biases are measured irrespective to risk preferences and they appear under a variety of conditions. The biases are largely consistent with a behavioral model in which geometric growth is confused with linear growth. This confusion is a possible driver of investors' difficulties with real-world financial products like leveraged ETFs and retirement savings plans.

Keywords: behavioral economics, irrational expectations, binomial tree

JEL Classification: C91, D14, G02

Suggested Citation:

Ensthaler, Ludwig and Nottmeyer, Olga and Weizsacker, Georg and Zankiewicz, Christian, Hidden Skewness: On the Difficulty of Multiplicative Compounding Under Random Shocks (February 8, 2016). DIW Berlin Discussion Paper No. 1337, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2353261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2353261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
K Abbink , B Rockenbach
Option pricing by students and professional traders: A behavioral investigation
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 497 - 510 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Benartzi , R H Thaler
Risk aversion or myopia? Choices in repeated gambles and retirement investments
Management Science , volume 45 , p. 364 - 381 Posted: 1999
Crossref
T Brünner , R Levinsky , J Qiu
Preference for skewness: Evidence from a binary choice experiment
European Journal of Finance , volume 17 , p. 525 - 538 Posted: 2011
Crossref
H Chen , A R Rao
When two plus two is not equal to four: Errors in processing multiple percentage changes
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 34 , p. 327 - 340 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,898
RANK
306,185
9 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies