Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Markets Research in Accounting

JAE Rochester Conference April 2000

145 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2000

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2001

Abstract

I review empirical research on the relation between capital markets and financial statements. The principal sources of demand for capital markets research in accounting are fundamental analysis and valuation, tests of market efficiency, and the role of accounting numbers in contracts and the political process. The capital markets research topics of current interest to researchers include tests of market efficiency with respect to accounting information, fundamental analysis, and value relevance of financial reporting. Evidence from research on these topics is likely to be helpful in capital market investment decisions, accounting standard setting, and corporate financial disclosure decisions.

Keywords: Capital markets; Financial reporting; Fundamental analysis; Valuation; Market efficiency

JEL Classification: F00, F30, G15, M41, M43, M44, M45

Suggested Citation:

Kothari, S.P., Capital Markets Research in Accounting (March 2001). JAE Rochester Conference April 2000, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=235798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.235798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
500 References
J Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 14 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Is the US stock market myopic
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13,292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
62,513
RANK
786
143 Citations
500 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

Use of R-Squared in Accounting Research: Measuring Changes in Value Relevance Over the Last Four Decades

By Stephen Brown, Kin Lo, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies