Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multiple Testing in Economics

21 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2013

Campbell R. Harvey

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Yan Liu

Purdue University

Date Written: November 21, 2013

Abstract

We propose a new way to conduct multiple hypothesis testing in economics research. Our framework allows for correlation among tests and incomplete data, both of which are prevalent in economic meta-analysis. Our simulations show that that our method is able to produce the correct p-value cutoff that controls the overall rate of false discoveries at a prespecified level of significance. The single hypothesis test, as used by most researchers, leads to too many false discoveries and should be avoided.

Keywords: Multiple tests, Correlation, Incomplete data, Meta-analysis, Data mining, False discoveries, Type I error, Type II error

JEL Classification: C12, C13, C21, C22, C52, G12, O11, B41

Suggested Citation:

Harvey, Campbell R. and Liu, Yan, Multiple Testing in Economics (November 21, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2358214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2358214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yoav Benjamini , Yosef Hochberg
Controlling the false discovery rate: A practical and powerful approach to multiple testing
Journal of the Royal Statistical Socitey. Series B , volume 57 , p. 289 - 300 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Yoav Benjamini , Abba Krieger , Daniel Yekutieli
Adaptive linear step-up procedures that control the false discovery rate
Biometrika , volume 93 , p. 491 - 507 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Gilles Blanchard , Etienne Roquain
Adaptive false discovery rate control under independence and dependence
Journal of Machine Learning Research , volume 10 , p. 2837 - 2871 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,078
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,957
RANK
17,531
12 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Backtesting

By Campbell R. Harvey and Yan Liu

Pseudo-Mathematics and Financial Charlatanism: The Effects of Backtest Overfitting on Out-of-Sample Performance

By David H. Bailey, Jonathan Borwein, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies