Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inference on Co-Integration Parameters in Heteroskedastic Vector Autoregressions

Tinbergen Institute 13-187/III

53 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2013 Last revised: 27 Nov 2013

H. Peter Boswijk

Amsterdam School of Economics; Tinbergen Institute

Giuseppe Cavaliere

University of Bologna - Department of Economics

Anders Rahbek

University of Copenhagen - Department of Statistics and Operations Research; University of Copenhagen - Department of Economics

Robert Taylor

University of Essex; University of Essex - Essex Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 14, 2013

Abstract

It is well established that the shocks driving many key macroeconomic and financial variables display time-varying volatility. In this paper we consider estimation and hypothesis testing on the coefficients of the co-integrating relations and the adjustment coefficients in vector autoregressions driven by both conditional and unconditional heteroskedasticity of a quite general and unknown form in the shocks. We show that the conventional results in Johansen (1996) for the maximum likelihood estimators and associated likelihood ratio tests derived under homoskedasticity do not in general hold in the presence of heteroskedasticity. As a consequence, standard confidence intervals and tests of hypothesis on these coefficients are potentially unreliable. Solutions to this inference problem based on Wald tests (using a "sandwich" estimator of the variance matrix) and on the use of the wild bootstrap are discussed. These do not require the practitioner to specify a parametric model for volatility, or to assume that the pattern of volatility is common to, or independent across, the vector of series under analysis. We formally establish the conditions under which these methods are asymptotically valid. A Monte Carlo simulation study demonstrates that significant improvements in finite sample size can be obtained by the bootstrap over the corresponding asymptotic tests in both heteroskedastic and homoskedastic environments. An application to the term structure of interest rates in the US illustrates the difference between standard and bootstrap inferences regarding hypotheses on the co-integrating vectors and adjustment coefficients.

Keywords: co-integration, adjustment coefficients, (un)conditional heteroskedasticity, heteroskedasticity-robust inference, wild bootstrap

JEL Classification: C30, C32

Suggested Citation:

Boswijk, H. Peter and Cavaliere, Giuseppe and Rahbek, Anders and Taylor, A. M. Robert and Taylor, A. M. Robert, Inference on Co-Integration Parameters in Heteroskedastic Vector Autoregressions (November 14, 2013). Tinbergen Institute 13-187/III, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2359482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2359482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
492,934
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Adaptive Estimation of Autoregression Models with Time-Varying Variances

By Ke-li Xu and Peter C. B. Phillips

Adaptive Estimation of Autoregressive Models with Time-Varying Variances

By Ke-li Xu and Peter C. B. Phillips

Optimal Instrumental Variables Estimation for Arma Models

By Guido M. Kuersteiner

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies