Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognition versus Disclosure: Evidence from Fair Value of Investment Property

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 20, Pages 1457-1503, 2015

59 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2013 Last revised: 9 Nov 2015

Doron Israeli

IDC Herzliya - Arison School of Business; Nazarbayev University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: March 14, 2015

Abstract

The application of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 40, Investment Property, in the European Union created a unique setting to study the implications of a decision to recognize versus disclose financial statements’ items because in this setting recognized and disclosed investment-property-related amounts share a common measurement base, i.e., fair value. I utilize this setting to (1) explore factors associated with a firm’s choice to recognize versus disclose fair values of investment properties, (2) test whether recognized and disclosed amounts are valued equally by equity investors, and (3) determine whether these amounts exhibit equivalent associations with future financial outcomes. To correct for self-selection concerns and assure I compare analogous amounts, I develop a selection model and construct investment-property-related amounts that differ only in whether their components are recognized or disclosed. I find that (1) contractual and asset pricing incentives help explain the recognition versus disclosure choice, (2) investors place smaller valuation weights on disclosed amounts, and (3) recognized and disclosed amounts exhibit statistically equivalent associations with future changes in net rental income and cash flows from operations. Taken together, the evidence suggests that managers are opportunistic in making the recognition versus disclosure choice and that even when recognized and disclosed amounts share an equivalent measurement base and are equally relevant for future financial outcomes, investors weight disclosed information less heavily in determining a firm’s value.

Keywords: Recognition versus disclosure; Fair value of investment property; Analogous amounts; Valuation weights; Value relevance

JEL Classification: G14, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Israeli, Doron, Recognition versus Disclosure: Evidence from Fair Value of Investment Property (March 14, 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 20, Pages 1457-1503, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2364974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2364974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
2 Citations
Chan-Jane Lin , Hsuan-Pin Wang
導入IAS 40對審計公費之影響 (The Effect of IAS 40 on Audit Fees)
Journal of Accounting Review 69: 43-82. · 40 Pages · Posted: 15 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 108
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kyrre Kjellevold
Monitoring of Fair Value Reliability by Third-Party Specialists: A Review and Integration of Empirical Research
40 Pages · Posted: 18 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 12 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 174
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
686
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,565
RANK
86,837
2 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies