Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Model Uncertainty and Expected Return Proxies

42 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2013 Last revised: 31 Jan 2014

Christoph Jäckel

Technische Universität München (TUM)

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

Over the last two decades, alternative expected return proxies have been proposed with substantially lower variation than realized returns. This helped to reduce parameter uncertainty and to identify many seemingly robust relations between expected returns and variables of interest, which would have gone unnoticed with the use of realized returns. In this study, I argue that these findings could be spurious due to the ignorance of model uncertainty: because a researcher does not know which of the many proposed proxies is measured with the least error, any inference conditional on only one proxy can lead to overconfident decisions. As a solution, I introduce a Bayesian model averaging (BMA) framework to directly incorporate model uncertainty into the statistical analysis. I employ this approach to three examples from the implied cost of capital (ICC) literature and show that the incorporation of model uncertainty can severely widen the coverage regions, thereby leveling the playing field between realized returns and alternative expected return proxies.

The appendices for this paper are available at the following URL: http://ssrn.com/abstract= 2364016

Keywords: time-varying expected returns, implied cost of capital, asset pricing, model averaging, model selection

JEL Classification: G12, C11

Suggested Citation:

Jäckel, Christoph, Model Uncertainty and Expected Return Proxies (January 31, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2364021 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2364021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Doron Avramov
Stock return predictability and model uncertainty
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 64 , issue 3 , p. 423 - 458 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Jules Van Binsbergen , Wouter Hueskes , Ralph Koijen , Evert Vrugt
Equity yields
Journal of Financial Economics Forthcoming Posted: 2013
Crossref
Murillo Campello , Long Chen , Lu Zhang
Expected returns, yield spreads, and asset pricing tests
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 1297 - 1338 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Long Chen , Zhi Da , Xinlei Zhao
What drives stock price movements?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 841 - 876 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,344
RANK
369,949
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies