Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Idiosyncratic Shocks to Firm Underlying Economics and Abnormal Accruals

70 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2013 Last revised: 1 Jun 2016

Edward Owens

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Joanna S. Wu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Jerold L. Zimmerman

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Date Written: May 15, 2016

Abstract

Economics challenge the specification of discretionary accrual models. Because rent-seeking firms pursue differentiated business strategies, firms in the same industry experience idiosyncratic shocks due to heterogeneous economic fundamentals and hence have different accrual generating processes. We present evidence that idiosyncratic shocks are widespread, propagate through multiple years of financial statements, and reduce accrual models’ goodness of fit. This not only affects abnormal accrual estimates for the firm experiencing shocks, but also affects measurement of abnormal accruals for other firms in the industry. We show that idiosyncratic shocks not only add noise to abnormal accruals, but can also exacerbate bias in both unsigned and signed abnormal accruals. We propose ways to reduce accrual model misspecification.

Keywords: abnormal accruals, earnings management, earnings quality

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Owens, Edward and Wu, Joanna S. and Zimmerman, Jerold L., Idiosyncratic Shocks to Firm Underlying Economics and Abnormal Accruals (May 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2365304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2365304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
S Arif , N Marshall , T Yohn
Understanding the relation between accruals and volatility: A real options-based investment approach. Working paper Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Ball
Accounting informs investors and earnings management is rife: Two questionable beliefs
Accounting Horizons , volume 27 , p. 847 - 853 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality at initial public offerings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,434
RANK
40,110
59 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Good Apples, Bad Apples: Sorting Among Chinese Companies Traded in the US

By James S. Ang, Zhiqian Jiang, ...

Importing Accounting Quality? The Case of Foreign Reverse Mergers

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

Spillover Effect of Fraud Allegations and Investor Sentiment

By Masako N. Darrough, Rong Huang, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies