Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Variables Regarding Managerial Characteristics for Small Enterprise Failure Prediction Modeling. Statistical Evidence from Italian Small Firms

Adinolfi P., Cafferata R., Tommasetti A. (edited by) Management without borders. The study of management: traditions and emerging paradigms. Bologna (Italy): Il Mulino, 2013

Posted: 27 Dec 2013

Francesco Ciampi

University of Florence - Department of Business Administration

Niccolo Gordini

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS)

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

In our study, logistic regression was applied to a sample of 760 Italian small enterprises (SEs) in order to test the accuracy of a company default prediction model based on both economic-financial ratios and variables regarding managerial characteristics. We then compared the results obtained to those from a similar model which used only economic-financial ratios. Our results show that: i) the model based on both financial ratios and managerial characteristics has a higher accuracy; ii) when logistic regression is applied separately according to size, geographical area and business sector, both models are significantly more accurate than when the decisional function is calculated on the aggregate sample; and iii) the greatest increase in accuracy (in point ii) is obtained when the decisional function is calculated separately according to firm size. These results suggest that including managerial variables gives a marked improvement to a SE default prediction model’s success rate.

Suggested Citation:

Ciampi, Francesco and Gordini, Niccolo, Using Variables Regarding Managerial Characteristics for Small Enterprise Failure Prediction Modeling. Statistical Evidence from Italian Small Firms (2013). Adinolfi P., Cafferata R., Tommasetti A. (edited by) Management without borders. The study of management: traditions and emerging paradigms. Bologna (Italy): Il Mulino, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2371878
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies