Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Apparent Criticality and Calibration Issues in the Hawkes Self-Excited Point Process Model: Application to High-Frequency Financial Data

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 13-60

39 Pages Posted: 24 Dec 2013

Vladimir Filimonov

Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich (ETH Zurich)

Didier Sornette

Risks-X, Southern University of Science and Technology (SUSTech); Swiss Finance Institute

Date Written: November 11, 2013

Abstract

We present a careful analysis of possible issues of the application of the self-excited Hawkes process to high-frequency financial data and carefully analyze a set of effects that lead to significant biases in the estimation of the "criticality index'' n that quantifies the degree of endogeneity of how much past events trigger future events. We report the following model biases: (i) evidence of strong upward biases on the estimation of n when using power law memory kernels in the presence of a few outliers, (ii) strong effects on n resulting from the form of the regularization part of the power law kernel, (iii) strong edge effects on the estimated n when using power law kernels, and (iv) the need for an exhaustive search of the absolute maximum of the log-likelihood function due to its complicated shape. Moreover, we demonstrate that the calibration of the Hawkes process on mixtures of pure Poisson process with changes of regime leads to completely spurious apparent critical values for the branching ratio (n = 1) while the true value is actually n = 0. More generally, regime shifts on the parameters of the Hawkes model and/or on the generating process itself are shown to systematically lead to a significant upward bias in the estimation of the branching ratio. We demonstrate the importance of the preparation of the high-frequency financial data, in particular: (i) the impact of overnight trading in the analysis of long-term trends, (ii) intraday seasonality and detrending of the data and (ii) vulnerability of the analysis to day-to-day nonstationarity and regime shifts. Special care is given to the decrease of quality of the timestamps of tick data due to latency and grouping of messages to packets by the stock exchange. Altogether, our careful exploration of the caveats of the calibration of the Hawkes process stresses the need for considering all the above issues before any conclusion can be sustained. In this respect, because the above effects are plaguing their analyses, the claim by Hardiman, Bercot and Bouchaud (2013) that financial market have been continuously functioning at or close to criticality (n = 1) cannot be supported. In contrast, our previous results on E-mini S&P 500 Futures Contracts and on major commodity future contracts are upheld.

Keywords: Hawkes process, Poisson process, endogeneity, reflexivity, branching ratio, outliers, memory kernel, high-frequency data, criticality, statistical biases, power laws, regime shifts

JEL Classification: C12, C53, C61, G01, G17

Suggested Citation:

Filimonov, Vladimir and Sornette, Didier, Apparent Criticality and Calibration Issues in the Hawkes Self-Excited Point Process Model: Application to High-Frequency Financial Data (November 11, 2013). Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 13-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2371284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2371284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Helmstetter , D Sornette
Importance of direct and indirect triggered seismicity in the ETAS model of seismicity
Geophysical Research Letters , volume 30 , issue 11 Posted: 2003
Crossref
V Filimonov , D Sornette
Quantifying reflexivity in financial markets: Toward a prediction of flash crashes
Physical Review E , volume 85 , issue 5 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Vladimir Filimonov , David Bicchetti , Nicolas Maystre , Didier Sornette
Quantification of the High Level of Endogeneity and of Structural Regime Shifts in Commodity Markets
Pages: 56 Posted: 23 Mar 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stephen Hardiman , Nicolas Bercot , Jean-Philippe Bouchaud
Critical Reflexivity in Financial Markets: A Hawkes Process Analysis
Pages: 9 Posted: 21 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,656
RANK
324,308
13 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies