Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linguistic Complexity in Firm Disclosures: Obfuscation or Information?

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2014 Last revised: 20 Jun 2017

Brian J. Bushee

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Ian D. Gow

Unaffiliated Author

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 14, 2017

Abstract

Prior research generally interprets complex language in firms’ disclosures as indicative of managerial obfuscation. However, complex language can also reflect the provision of complex information, e.g., informative technical disclosure. As a consequence, linguistic complexity commingles two latent components — obfuscation and information — that are related to information asymmetry in opposite directions. We develop a novel empirical approach to estimate these two latent components within the context of quarterly earnings conference calls. We validate our estimates of these two latent components by examining their relation to information asymmetry. Consistent with our predictions, we find that our estimate of the information component is negatively associated with information asymmetry while our estimate of the obfuscation component is positively associated with information asymmetry. Our findings suggest that future research on linguistic complexity can construct more powerful tests by separately examining these two latent components of linguistic complexity.

Keywords: Disclosure; Linguistic complexity; Conference calls; Information asymmetry

JEL Classification: D82; G14; G18; M41; M45

Suggested Citation:

Bushee, Brian J. and Gow, Ian D. and Taylor, Daniel, Linguistic Complexity in Firm Disclosures: Obfuscation or Information? (June 14, 2017). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2375424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2375424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,593
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,082
RANK
12,224
48 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies