Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Examination of Horizon: Evidence from the Term Structure of Implied Equity Volatilities

Ross School of Business Paper No. 1223

54 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2014 Last revised: 6 Feb 2014

Ryan T. Ball

The Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan

Jonathan A. Milian

Florida International University (FIU)

Date Written: January 14, 2014

Abstract

We develop and test measures of the horizon of firm uncertainty and of the horizon of managers’ corporate disclosures. The measures exploit information in the term structure of implied equity volatilities to gauge the relative extent to which the information underlying securities prices reflects long-term versus short-term uncertainty. We find that the horizon of firm uncertainty measure is associated with variables that are likely to capture the extent to which firms’ business models result in differing degrees of uncertainty about the long-term versus the short-term. The horizon of managers’ corporate disclosures measure allows us to characterize managers’ disclosures in terms of whether they provide information about long-term business strategies or are more oriented towards short-term operating results. We find that earnings announcements containing management forecasts have shorter disclosure horizons than earnings announcements not containing management forecasts.

Keywords: corporate disclosure, short-term focus, earnings guidance, uncertainty, horizon

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ryan T. and Milian, Jonathan A., An Empirical Examination of Horizon: Evidence from the Term Structure of Implied Equity Volatilities (January 14, 2014). Ross School of Business Paper No. 1223, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2378891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2378891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value-relevance of intangibles: the case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
Crossref
A Alford , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: the wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ryan T. Ball , Lindsey A. Gallo
A Mixed Data Sampling Approach to Accounting Research
49 Pages · Posted: 10 Oct 2018 · Downloads: 4,387
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,683
RANK
339,258
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies