Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Specification Testing in Structural Nonparametric Cointegration

65 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2014

Chaohua Dong

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Jiti Gao

Monash University - Department of Econometrics & Business Statistics

Date Written: January 16, 2014

Abstract

This paper proposes two simple and new specification tests based on the use of an orthogonal series for a considerable class of cointegrated time series models with endogeneity and nonstationarity. The paper then establishes an asymptotic theory for each of the proposed tests. The first test is initially proposed for the case where the regression function involved is integrable, which fills a gap in the literature, and the second test is an extended version of the first test for covering a class of non-integrable functions. Endogeneity in two general forms is allowed in the models to be tested. A potential global departure in the alternative hypothesis, which is being overlooked by the literature, is investigated. The finite sample performance of the proposed tests is examined through using several simulated examples. Meanwhile, the second test is naturally applicable to the case where there is a type of endogeneity inherited in the relationship between the United States aggregate consumers' consumption expenditure and disposable income over the period of 1960-2009. Our experience generally shows that the proposed tests are easily implementable and also have stable sizes and good power properties even when the 'distance' between the null hypothesis and a sequence of local alternatives is asymptotically negligible.

Keywords: Consumption-income model; Endogeneity; Integrated time series; Linear process; Orthogonal series estimation; Parametric specification

JEL Classification: C12; C14

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Chaohua and Gao, Jiti, Specification Testing in Structural Nonparametric Cointegration (January 16, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Ai , X Chen
Efficient estimation of models with conditional moment restrictions containing unknown functions
Econometrica , volume 71 , p. 1795 - 1843 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P Billingsley
Convergence of Probability Measures Posted: 1968
A Edelman , N R Rao
Random matrix theory. Acta Numerica , p. 1 - 65 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Gao
Nonlinear Time Series: semi-and non-parametric methods Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,291
RANK
702,914
6 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies