Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Early Detection of Potential Bank Bankruptcy Through Financial Ratio Analysis: Multinomial Logistic Regression Model

20 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2014

Tengku Qurriyani

Alumni of Universitas Indonesia

Date Written: January 18, 2013

Abstract

Prediction of potential bank bankruptcy based on financial ratios is a continuing research. This study is aimed to provide prediction model capable of explaining bank’s health, predicting or detecting early potential bankruptcy of bank, finding formula that can be applied to all banks, promoting sound banking and simultaneously creating economic prosperity of the country considering that bank is the country’s economic infrastructure. Statistical technique based on multinomial logistic regression model is used as method to test the model with categorical dependent variables given a set of independent variables. It is found that financial ratio related to bank’s capital adequacy is statistically significant (in two logit functions) in providing early detection of potential bank insolvency. The accuracy of predictions by the model is 75% for failed banks (BL), 62.50% for banks classified under special surveillance or banks in resolution (BDP), and 97.14% for healthy banks (BS). Financial ratios are believed to have contributed to the bankruptcy prediction model by 89.36%.

Keywords: Financial ratios, Go-public bank, Multinomial logistic regression model, Prediction accuracy, Prediction model of potential bank bankruptcy

JEL Classification: M41, G33

Suggested Citation:

Qurriyani, Tengku, Early Detection of Potential Bank Bankruptcy Through Financial Ratio Analysis: Multinomial Logistic Regression Model (January 18, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Henrik Andersen
Failure prediction of Norwegian banks: A logit approach. Working Paper. Financial Markets Department Posted: 2008
Titik Aryati , Hekinus Manao
Rasio Keuangan sebagai Prediktor Bank Bermasalah di Indonesia Posted: 2000
Mark P Bauman
The Impact and Valuation of Off-Balance-Sheet Activities Concealed by Equity Method Accounting
Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 303 - 314 Posted: 2003
Crossref
William H Beaver
Financial Ratios As Predictors of Failure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 4 , p. 71 - 111 Posted: 1966
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
556
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,816
RANK
113,793
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies