Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Shooting S-Estimator for Robust Regression

22 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2014

Viktoria Oellerer

KU Leuven - Department of Applied Economics

Andreas Alfons

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Christophe Croux

KU Leuven - Faculty of Business and Economics (FEB)

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

To perform multiple regression, the least squares estimator is commonly used. However, this estimator is not robust to outliers. Therefore, robust methods such as MM-estimation have been proposed. These estimators flag any observation with a large residual as an outlier and downweight it in the further procedure. This is also the case if the large residual is caused by only one component of the observation, which results in a loss of information.

Therefore, we propose the shooting S-estimator, a regression estimator that is especially designed for situations where a large number of observations suffer from contamination in a small number of predictor variables. The shooting S-estimator combines the ideas of the coordinate descent algorithm with simple S-regression, which makes it robust against componentwise contamination.

Keywords: cellwise outliers, componentwise contamination, shooting algorithm, coordinate descent algorithm, regression S-estimation

Suggested Citation:

Oellerer, Viktoria and Alfons, Andreas and Croux, Christophe, The Shooting S-Estimator for Robust Regression (2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2381960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2381960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A Alfons , C Croux , S Gelper
Sparse least trimmed squares regression for analyzing high-dimensional large data sets
The Annals of Applied Statistics , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 226 - 248 Posted: 2013
Crossref
F Alqallaf , S Van Aelst , V J Yohai , R H Zamar
Propagation of outliers in multivariate data
The Annals of Statistics , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 311 - 331 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D A Belsley , E Kuh , R E Welsch
Regression Diagnostics: Identifying Influential Data and Source of Collinearity Posted: 1980
J Friedman , T Hastie , H Hofling , R Tibshirani
Pathwise coordinate optimization
The Annals of Applied Statistics , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 302 - 332 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,643
RANK
653,768
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies