Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Methodological Triangulation: Question of Validity in Social Science Research

Posted: 23 Jan 2014

Shivani Singh

Indira Gandhi National Open University

Date Written: January 23, 2014

Abstract

Triangulation is one of the several rationales for ‘Multimethod Research’. Some social scientists argue that triangulation is just for increasing the wider and deep understanding of the phenomenon, while others have argued that triangulation is actually used to increase the accuracy, in this case triangulation is one of the validity measures. The original usage of triangulation, within the literature of social science methodology, referred to checking the validity of an interpretation based on a single source of data by recourse to at least one further source that is of a strategically different type. This paper focuses on the use of Methodological Triangulation in social science, particularly in the context of Validity to Qualitative Methods. It gives an overview of Methodological Triangulation, its proposed uses and issues in its use, before examining these issues in the context of validation. This paper examines how triangulation with qualitative and quantitative methods can help confirm a theory to a greater degree than can either method alone.

Keywords: triangulation, methodological triangulation, validation

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Shivani, Methodological Triangulation: Question of Validity in Social Science Research (January 23, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2383776
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,351
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies