Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Articulation Based Accruals

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2014 Last revised: 18 Dec 2016

Ryan Casey

University of Denver

Feng Gao

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Michael Kirschenheiter

College of Business Administration University of Illinois at Chicago

Siyi Li

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Shail Pandit

University of Illinois at Chicago; University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: December 10, 2016

Abstract

We build an articulating financial statements model in which the beginning and ending balance sheet amounts are explicitly linked to accruals. We distinguish accruals based on the source financial statement of the accruals, either the cash flow statement, balance sheet, or statement of owners’ equity. We then examine how the accrual-generating source affects the relations between accruals and future earnings and stock returns. While prior studies document a negative association between accruals and future earnings and returns, we find accruals relating to the current operating section of the balance sheet are positively associated with future earnings. Further, accruals originating from net financial asset via the statement of owners’ equity are positively associated with future returns. We also show that equity investment and discontinued asset accruals differ from operating asset accruals in their association with future earnings.

Keywords: Financing accruals; operating accruals; financial statement articulation

Suggested Citation:

Casey, Ryan J. and Gao, Feng and Kirschenheiter, Michael and Li, Siyi and Pandit, Shailendra and Pandit, Shailendra, Articulation Based Accruals (December 10, 2016). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2383537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2383537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
William Beaver , Maureen Mcnichols , Richard Price
Delisting returns and their effect on accounting-based market anomalies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 368 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Ryan Casey , Feng Gao , Michael Kirschenheiter , Siyi Li , Shailendra Pandit
Do Compustat financial statement data articulate
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 59 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Daniel W Collins , Jaewoo Kim
The persistence and pricing of merger-related transitory growth and its implications for growth anomalies and asset pricing models. Working paper, the University of Iowa Posted: 2015
Patricia M Dechow , Ilia D Dichev
The quality of accruals and earnings: The role of accrual estimation errors
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 35 - 59 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Ryan J. Casey , Feng Gao , Michael T. Kirschenheiter , Siyi Li , Shailendra Pandit
Do Compustat Financial Statement Data Articulate?
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 37 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Theodore E. Christensen , Adrienna A. Huffman , Melissa Fay Lewis-Western , Kristen Valentine
A Simple Approach to Better Distinguish Real Earnings Manipulation from Strategy Changes
59 Pages · Posted: 13 Jun 2016 · Last revised: 15 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 1,281
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian Ayash , Ziemowit Bednarek , Adam Bordeman
Do Compustat Financial Statement Data Actually Articulate?
31 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2021 · Last revised: 1 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 854
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David Tree , Dilin Wang , Rong Yang
Balance Sheet Classification Shifting and Non-Articulation
ADIAC-D-22-00034 · 38 Pages · Posted: 7 May 2022 · Last revised: 24 May 2024 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,029
RANK
182,421
4 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies