Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Treating Unobserved Heterogeneity in PLS Path Modelling: A Comparison of FIMIX-PLS with Different Data Analysis Strategies

Journal of Applied Statistics, Vol. 37, No. 8, pp. 1299-1318, 2010

Posted: 24 Jan 2014

Marko Sarstedt

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg; University of Newcastle (Australia)

Christian M. Ringle

Hamburg University of Technology (TUHH)

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

In the social science disciplines, the assumption that the data stem from a single homogeneous population is often unrealistic in respect of empirical research. When applying a causal modelling approach, such as partial least squares path modelling, segmentation is a key issue in coping with the problem of heterogeneity in the estimated cause-effect relationships. This article uses the novel finite-mixture partial least squares (FIMIX-PLS) method to uncover unobserved heterogeneity in a complex path modelling example in the field of marketing. An evaluation of the results includes a comparison with the outcomes of several data analysis strategies based on a priori information or k-means cluster analysis. The results of this article underpin the effectiveness and the advantageous capabilities of FIMIX-PLS in general PLS path model set-ups by means of empirical data and formative as well as reflective measurement models. Consequently, this research substantiates the general applicability of FIMIX-PLS to path modelling as a standard means of evaluating PLS results by addressing the problem of unobserved heterogeneity.

Keywords: partial least square (PLS); path modelling; heterogeneity; latent class; finite mixture; market segmentation; corporate reputation

JEL Classification: A00

Suggested Citation:

Sarstedt, Marko and Ringle, Christian M., Treating Unobserved Heterogeneity in PLS Path Modelling: A Comparison of FIMIX-PLS with Different Data Analysis Strategies (2010). Journal of Applied Statistics, Vol. 37, No. 8, pp. 1299-1318, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2383803
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,041
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric Model Construction, Estimation & Selection eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies