Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting the Insolvency of U.S. Banks Using Support Vector Machines (SVM) Based on Local Learning Feature Selection

International Journal of Computational Economics and Econometrics, 2013 Vol.3 No.1/2, pp.83 - 90

Posted: 28 Jan 2014 Last revised: 6 Sep 2019

Theophilos Papadimitriou

Department of Economics, Democritus University of Thrace

Periklis Gogas

Democritus University of Thrace - Department of Economics

Vasilios Plakandaras

Democritus University of Thrace

John Mourmouris

Democritus University of Thrace - Department of Economics

Date Written: November 7, 2013

Abstract

We propose an Support Vector Machine (SVM) based structural model in order to forecast the collapse of banking institutions in the U.S. using publicly disclosed information from their financial statements on a four-year rolling window. In our approach, the optimum input variable set is defined from a large dataset using an iterative relevance-based selection procedure. We train an SVM model to classify banks as solvent and insolvent. The resulting model exhibits significant ability in bank default forecasting.

Keywords: Bank insolvency, SVM, local learning, feature selection

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Papadimitriou, Theophilos and Gogas, Periklis and Plakandaras, Vasilios and Mourmouris, John, Forecasting the Insolvency of U.S. Banks Using Support Vector Machines (SVM) Based on Local Learning Feature Selection (November 7, 2013). International Journal of Computational Economics and Econometrics, 2013 Vol.3 No.1/2, pp.83 - 90, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2386116
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,560
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Forecasting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies