Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selected Theoretical and Practical Aspects of Statistical Methodology of Qualitative Research in Information Systems

Proceedings of the International Conference on ICT Management (ICTM 2012), September 2012

17 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2014 Last revised: 5 Dec 2016

Jolanta Kowal

Wroclaw University, Faculty of Historical and Pedagogical Sciences, Institute of Psychology

Date Written: September 16, 2012

Abstract

Information technology (IT) is one of the fields of science (including computer hardware and software used to create, transmit, display and secure information), combining telecommunications, utilities, and other technology-related information. It provides to the users the tools by which they can obtain information, select it, analyze, process, manage and communicate to other people.

Information technology media may support very well the qualitative research, which is often essential and special in developing economies and transition circumstances. Special conditions and activities are needed to identify the situation, market, individual analysis and diagnosis. Simple structured surveys and questionnaires give not always full and accurate answers. Users may find good theoretical approach in information systems (IS) concerning qualitative research and tools helpful in research interpreting.

In the presented below article there appears a review of qualitative methods with respect to informative, statistical and philosophical aspects. One can find here the idea of qualitative research, including consideration over some methods of its application, evaluation and verification with the use of classic statistics and statistical optimization methods. Thus, on one side, the article serves as a review but on the other it is a proposal of how to utilize statistical methods (if its considered a matter of its own merits) in a qualitative research. The question – ‘Can one apply quantitative methods and statistics in qualitative research?’ is a subject matter in various discourses concerning methodology and ethics of qualitative research at different conferences as well as in literature. Ethics of qualitative research is connected with methodological, psychological (in reference to respecting the rights of research participants) and other aspects linked to use of the results in a social circulation.

Keywords: Information systems (IS), qualitative research, methodology of qualitative research

JEL Classification: J00, J20, J30, J39, J40, M00, M50

Suggested Citation:

Kowal, Jolanta, Selected Theoretical and Practical Aspects of Statistical Methodology of Qualitative Research in Information Systems (September 16, 2012). Proceedings of the International Conference on ICT Management (ICTM 2012), September 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2393431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
K Ajdukiewicz
Główne zasady metodologii nauk i logiki formalnej Posted: 1928
B Bartosz
Metody jakościowe w Psychologii współczesnej
Metody jakościowe -nadzieje, dylematy i perspektywy, W: StraśRomanowska M. (red) , p. 39 - 53 Posted: 2000
R Boland
Information System Use as an Hermeneutic Process
Qualitative Research in Information Systems Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Brzeziński
Metodologia badań psychologicznych Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
RANK
517,938
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Information Systems: Behavioral & Social Methods eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies