Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
P Values, Confidence Intervals, or Confidence Levels for Hypotheses?

22 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2014

Michael Wood

University of Portsmouth

Date Written: February 11, 2014

Abstract

Null hypothesis significance tests and p values are widely used despite very strong arguments against their use in many contexts. Confidence intervals are often recommended as an alternative, but these do not achieve the objective of assessing the credibility of a hypothesis, and the distinction between confidence and probability is an unnecessary confusion. This paper proposes a more straightforward (probabilistic) definition of confidence, and suggests how the idea can be applied to whatever hypotheses are of interest to researchers. The relative merits of the different approaches are discussed using a series of illustrative examples: usually confidence based approaches seem more transparent and useful, but there are some contexts in which p values may be appropriate. I also suggest some methods for converting results from one format to another. (The attractiveness of the idea of confidence is demonstrated by the widespread persistence of the completely incorrect idea that p=5% is equivalent to 95% confidence in the alternative hypothesis. In this paper I show how p values can be used to derive meaningful confidence statements, and the assumptions underlying the derivation.)

Keywords: Confidence interval, Confidence level, Hypothesis testing, Null hypothesis significance tests, P value, User friendliness

Suggested Citation:

Wood, Michael, P Values, Confidence Intervals, or Confidence Levels for Hypotheses? (February 11, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2393927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2393927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M J Bayarri , J O Berger
The interplay of Bayesian and frequentist analysis
Statistical Science , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 80 Posted: 2004
T A Beauregard
Direct and indirect links between organizational work-home culture and employee well-being
British Journal of Management , volume 22 , p. 218 - 237 Posted: 2011
Crossref
BMJ Posted: 2011-10
Crossref
W M Bolstad
Introduction to Bayesian statistics Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,773
RANK
487,089
3 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies