Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Grounded Theory Approach to the Minerals Resource Rent Tax

2013 Australian Tax Forum 28 (4), pg. 819-852

34 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2014

Diane Kraal

Monash University - Monash Business School

Date Written: June 13, 2013

Abstract

Governments around the world are under constant pressure to reduce deficits and balance their national budgets. The previous heterodoxy of suggesting new or higher taxes has now become orthodoxy. A recent example is the returned Barack Obama administration, which is emboldened to the task of addressing ways to increase tax receipts. This study covers the period just prior to and immediately after the introduction of new tax legislation in Australia in an era of partisan, polarised politics. Four theories (grounded in data collected) provide explanations from contextual elements, conditions and events, all of which have an effect on the success of a new tax.

The Minerals Resource Rent Tax (MRRT) took effect in July 2012. The MRRT is the subject of this qualitative research study, which utilises theories from an analysis of print media data relating to the tax. The study contributes to an understanding of the issues that require consideration when a new tax is implemented as well as the politics of tax policy. The findings have lessons for Australia as well as other jurisdictions when considering new tax legislation.

Keywords: resource rent tax, tax law, royalties, grounded theory, Australian law

Suggested Citation:

Kraal, Diane, A Grounded Theory Approach to the Minerals Resource Rent Tax (June 13, 2013). 2013 Australian Tax Forum 28 (4), pg. 819-852, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394400 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2394400
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Ken Henry
Tax Reform: Opportunities and Challenges Posted: 2010
John Freebairn , John Quiggin
The 'Brown tax' refers to the work of E Cary Brown
Business-Income Taxation and Investment Incentives
Brian Parmenter , Amar Breckenridge , Stephen Gray
Economic Analysis of the Government's Recent Mining Tax Proposals , volume 29 Posted: 2010-09
Crossref
David For Example , Uren
$1.5b tax shortfall sinks surplus hope
The Australian (Sydney) Posted: 2012-11-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,691
RANK
407,330
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies