Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Implications of Research and Development Expenditures for Future Profitability

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2014 Last revised: 14 Jan 2020

Asher Curtis

University of Washington; Department of Accounting

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: May 14, 2019

Abstract

We document strong evidence of a declining relation between R&D and future profitability, which coincides with a number of important economic changes including a significant increase in R&D spending. We identify several contributors to this decline, including changes in the nature and riskiness of R&D projects and a shift in the types of firms undertaking R&D in our sample (e.g., successive cohorts, STEM versus non-STEM firms). We also demonstrate variation in the implications of R&D for future profitability consistent with diminishing marginal returns to R&D investments. Overall, our evidence suggests that in earlier time periods, investments in R&D offered high returns in U.S. public firms, but that in more recent times these returns have stabilized at lower levels. Our study offers important insights for financial statement users, managers, and researchers.

Keywords: R&D; Earnings Implications; Capital Markets; Analysts; Investors

JEL Classification: M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Asher and McVay, Sarah E. and Toynbee, Sara, The Changing Implications of Research and Development Expenditures for Future Profitability (May 14, 2019). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2402886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2402886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
V Acharya , Z Xu
Financial Dependence and Innovation: The Case of Public Versus Private Firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P Aghion , P Howitt
A Model of Growth through Creative Destruction
Econometrica , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 323 - 351 Posted: 1992
Crossref
N Bloom , C I Jones , J Van Reenen , M Webb
Are Ideas Getting Harder to Find? NBER Working Paper No. w23782 Posted: 2017
Crossref
E Brynjolfsson , M Schrage
The New, Faster Face of Innovation
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,259
RANK
37,077
18 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies