Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Illiquidity and the Measurement of Stock Price Synchronicity

55 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2014 Last revised: 23 Mar 2019

Joachim Gassen

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Hollis Ashbaugh Skaife

Graduate School of Management, UC-Davis

David Veenman

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School (ABS)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2019

Abstract

This paper demonstrates that measures of stock price synchronicity based on market model R2s are predictably biased downwards as a result of stock illiquidity, and that previously-employed remedies to correct market model betas for measurement bias do not fix R2. Using a large international sample of firm-years, we find strong negative and nonlinear relations between illiquidity and R2 across countries, across firms, and over time. Because variables of interest frequently relate to illiquidity as well, we illustrate the consequences of not controlling for illiquidity in synchronicity research. More generally, we demonstrate the importance of using nonlinear control variable methods. Overall, we conclude that the illiquidity-driven measurement bias in R2 provides an explanation for why prior research finds low-R2 firms to have weak information environments, and suggest future research carefully evaluate the sensitivity of its results to nonlinear controls for illiquidity.

Keywords: Stock price synchronicity; Price informativeness; Illiquidity; Zero returns; Corporate transparency; Sell-side analysts; Control variables; Fixed effects; Nonlinearity

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, M40, N20

Suggested Citation:

Gassen, Joachim and Skaife, Hollis Ashbaugh and Veenman, David, Illiquidity and the Measurement of Stock Price Synchronicity (March 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2405465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2405465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
14 Citations
David C. Parsley , Helen Popper
Return Comovement
39 Pages · Posted: 15 Aug 2015 · Last revised: 15 Jun 2017 · Downloads: 178
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yi Dong , Chenkai Ni
Does Limited Attention Constrain Investors’ Acquisition of Firm‐specific Information?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 41 , issue 9-10 , p. 1361 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Nyanine Chuele Fonou-Dombeu , Josue Mbonigaba , Odunayo Magret Olarewaju , Bomi Cyril Nomlala
Earnings quality measures and stock return volatility in South Africa
Future Business Journal , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Matthijs Lof , Jos van Bommel
Asymmetric Information and the Distribution of Trading Volume
Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming · 92 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2016 · Last revised: 7 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 982
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
971
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,896
RANK
54,517
14 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies