Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influential Observations and Inference in Accounting Research

Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 14-06

50 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2014 Last revised: 28 Aug 2017

Andrew J. Leone

Northwestern University

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Date Written: August 15, 2017

Abstract

Accounting studies routinely encounter observations taking on extreme values. Such observations can influence statistical estimates (coefficient) and inferences. Our survey of the accounting literature documents that the two most common approaches used to address influential observations are winsorization and truncation. Although widely used, there is little systematic evidence in the literature as to their efficacy. While expedient, both approaches depend on researcher-selected cutoffs, are often applied on a variable-by- variable basis, and can alter legitimate data (i.e., valid) points. We compare winsorization and truncation with influence diagnostics (e.g. Cook’s distance) and robust regression (RR), the latter two of which are suggested in the statistics and econometrics literatures. We replicate three published studies to show how the choice of method to account for influential observations impacts estimates and inferences. We also use simulations to compare the alternative approaches. We find that winsorization and truncation are largely ineffective in mitigating the effect of influential observations. Although both influence diagnostics and RR outperform winsorization and truncation, RR generally outperforms all other methods. RR, which focuses on model fit to deal with influential observations, is relatively straightforward to implement in accounting settings. While RR is not without limitations, overall, our findings lead us to recommend that future accounting studies consider using RR, or at least report sensitivity tests using RR.

Suggested Citation:

Leone, Andrew J. and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Wasley, Charles E., Influential Observations and Inference in Accounting Research (August 15, 2017). Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 14-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2407967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2407967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Andersen
Modern methods for robust regression Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Belsley , E Kuh , R Welsch
Regression diagnostics: Identifying influential data and sources of collinearity Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,712
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,214
RANK
23,702
57 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implied Cost of Capital: A New Approach

By Kewei Hou, Mathijs A. Van Dijk, ...

Inventory Investment and the Cost of Capital

By Christopher S. Jones and Selale Tuzel

Regression-Based Earnings Forecasts

By Joseph Gerakos and Robert Gramacy

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies