Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Information Discovery and Interpretation Roles: A Topic Modeling Approach

Ross School of Business Paper No. 1229

51 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2014 Last revised: 10 Nov 2016

Allen H. Huang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

Reuven Lehavy

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Amy Zang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

Rong Zheng

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information Systems, Business Statistics and Operations Management

Date Written: November 6, 2016

Abstract

This study examines analyst information intermediary roles using a textual analysis of analyst reports and corporate disclosures. We employ a topic modeling methodology from computational linguistic research to compare the thematic content of a large sample of analyst reports issued promptly after earnings conference calls with the content of the calls themselves. We show that analysts discuss exclusive topics beyond those from conference calls and interpret topics from conference calls. In addition, we find that investors place a greater value on new information in analyst reports when managers face greater incentives to withhold value-relevant information. Analyst interpretation is particularly valuable when the processing costs of conference call information increase. Finally, we document that investors react to analyst report content that simply confirms managers’ conference call discussions. Overall, our study shows that analysts play the information intermediary roles by discovering information beyond corporate disclosures and by clarifying and confirming corporate disclosures.

Keywords: Financial Analysts; Conference Calls; Information Content; Textual Analysis; Topic Modeling

JEL Classification: M41; G24; D82; D83; C11

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Allen H. and Lehavy, Reuven and Zang, Amy and Zheng, Rong, Analyst Information Discovery and Interpretation Roles: A Topic Modeling Approach (November 6, 2016). Ross School of Business Paper No. 1229, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2409482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2409482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D C Atkins , T N Rubin , M Steyvers , M A Doeden , B R Baucom , A Christensen
Topic models: A novel method for modeling couple and family text data
J. of Family Psych , volume 26 , issue 5 , p. 816 - 827 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Christopher Ball , Gerard Hoberg , Vojislav Maksimovic
Disclosure, Business Change and Earnings Quality
Pages: 54 Posted: 4 May 2013 Last revised: 9 Sep 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Y Bao , A Datta
Simultaneously discovering and quantifying risk types from textual risk disclosures
Management Sci , volume 60 , issue 6 , p. 1371 - 1391 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
J. Accounting Econom , volume 50 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,715
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,686
RANK
23,637
49 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies