Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looking Forward: The Role of Multiple Regression in Family Business Research

Hopkins, L. & Ferguson, K.E (2014). Looking forward: The role of multiple regression in family business. Journal of Family Business Strategy. 5, 52-62.

11 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2014

Lucas Hopkins

Middle Georgia State College / University System of Georgia

Keith Ferguson

Grand Rapids Community College

Date Written: March 17, 2014

Abstract

This article assesses the role of regression analysis in family business research. We discuss four specific types of regression (multiple linear, stepwise, hierarchical, and nonlinear) and review how each type has been used in prior family business research. In order to specify a systematic guide to using regression analysis, specific examples are provided using SPSS. The article concludes by providing several rules of thumb for the use of regression analysis.

Keywords: Regression analysis, Nonlinear regression, Research methods, Family business, and Best practice

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Lucas and Ferguson, Keith, Looking Forward: The Role of Multiple Regression in Family Business Research (March 17, 2014). Hopkins, L. & Ferguson, K.E (2014). Looking forward: The role of multiple regression in family business. Journal of Family Business Strategy. 5, 52-62., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2410159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
C L Aberson , D E Berger , M R Healy , V L Romero
An interactive tutorial for teaching statistical power
Journal of Statistics Education , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Maximizing degrees of freedom improves generalizability and addresses parsimony and sample size concerns. Regression assumptions Graphic analyses are the most widely used method of assessing assumptions. Testing assumptions must be done for the independent and dependent variables, but also for the variate as well. Estimation techniques Theory should always guide the evaluation of a regression model. Confirmatory specification allows direct testing of a prespecified model. Sequential search increases predictive accuracy, but leaves the researcher with minimal control over the final model. No single method is best
Regression rules of thumb. Sample size Minimum ratio of observations to variables is 5:1, but the preferred ratio is 20:1 Posted: 2010
J Armstrong
How to avoid exploratory research
Journal of Advertising Research , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 27 - 30 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,510
RANK
115,900
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies