Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Costs and Benefits of Long-Short Investing: A Perspective on the Market Efficiency Literature

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2014 Last revised: 1 Oct 2016

William H. Beaver

Stanford University

Maureen F. McNichols

Stanford University

Richard A. Price

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: May 1, 2016

Abstract

We highlight key assumptions implicit in the models used by academics conducting research on market efficiency. Most notably, many academics assume that investors can borrow unlimited amounts and construct long-short portfolios at zero cost. We relax these assumptions and examine the attractiveness of long-short strategies as stand-alone investments and as a part of a diversified portfolio. Our analysis illustrates that the key benefit of long-short investing is adding diversification to a portfolio beyond what the market provides. We show that as stand-alone investments, nontrivial risk remains in the “hedge” strategies and that the returns generally do not beat the market in a head-to-head contest. Our findings raise questions about the degree of inefficiency in anomaly studies because plausible measures of costs generally offset strategy returns. The ability to achieve greater diversification may be, but is not necessarily, due to market inefficiency. We also highlight the key role of the generally ignored but critically important short interest rebate and show that absent this rebate, the long-short strategies we examine generally yield insignificant returns.

Keywords: Accounting-Based Anomalies; Long-Short Strategies; Short Selling; Market Efficiency; Sharpe Ratio; Short Interest Rebates

JEL Classification: G11; G12; G14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Beaver, William H. and McNichols, Maureen F. and Price, Richard A., The Costs and Benefits of Long-Short Investing: A Perspective on the Market Efficiency Literature (May 1, 2016). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2412547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2412547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
P Asquith , P Pathak , J Ritter
Short interest, institutional ownership, and stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , J Shanken
Problems in measuring portfolio performance: An application to contrarian investment strategies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 38 , p. 79 - 107 Posted: 1995
Crossref
W Beaver , M Mcnichols , R Price
Delisting returns and their effect on accountingbased market anomalies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 368 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Messod Daniel Beneish , Charles M.C. Lee , Craig Nichols
In Short Supply: Short Sellers and Stock Returns
Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 165 Pages: 55 Posted: 4 Dec 2013 Last revised: 19 Apr 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
707
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,410
RANK
83,503
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies