Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are We Really Doing What We Think We Are Doing? A Note on Finite-Sample Estimates of Two-Way Cluster-Robust Standard Errors

8 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2014 Last revised: 19 Feb 2015

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Date Written: April 9, 2014

Abstract

Archival researchers heavily rely on statistics software to deliver large sample analyses. To provide valid empirical analyses, an author needs to know the best statistical solution to the research issue and also the correct computer language that exactly carries out such statistical tests. However, unfortunately, researchers rarely explain what they exactly do in empirical analyses. Consequently, it is difficult for a reader to figure out the validity of the empirical results. This note uses two-way cluster-robust standard errors as an example to explain these points.

Two-way cluster-robust standard errors are getting widely used in the accounting and finance literature. There are multiple different alternative specifications of two-way cluster-robust standard errors, which could result in very different significance levels than unadjusted asymptotic estimates. However, researchers rarely explain which estimate of two-way cluster-robust standard errors they use, though they may all call their standard errors “two-way cluster-robust standard errors”.

Specifically, I first provide a short-discussion on alternative estimates of two-way cluster-robust standard errors. Second, I discuss two common mistakes in calculating two-way cluster-robust standard errors. Third, I show that popular statistics software (SAS and STATA) have options that could generate several alternative estimates of two-way cluster-robust standard errors. Therefore, if not explained, no reader would know which estimate is used. Finally, I suggest that future empirical research should carefully explain how it implements estimates of two-way cluster-robust standard errors in finite samples. In addition, a SAS macro code for two-way clustered standard errors is available at my website. If you use this code, please add the following footnote “To obtain unbiased estimates, the clustered standard errors are adjusted by (N-1)/ (N-P) × G/(G-1), where N is the sample size, P is the number of independent variables, and G is the number of clusters.”

Keywords: SAS, STATA, two-way clustered standard errors, finite sample

JEL Classification: C1

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Mark (Shuai), Are We Really Doing What We Think We Are Doing? A Note on Finite-Sample Estimates of Two-Way Cluster-Robust Standard Errors (April 9, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2420421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2420421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
A C Cameron , D L Miller
Robust Inference with Clustered Data
Handbook of Empirical Economics and Finance , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Mackinnon , H White
Some heteroskedasticity-consistent covariance matrix estimators with improved finite sample properties
Journal of Econometrics , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 1985
Crossref
M Petersen
Estimating Standard Errors in Finance Panel Data Sets: Comparing Approaches
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 435 - 480 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Thompson
Simple formulas for standard errors that cluster by both firm and time
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 99 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
841
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,814
RANK
66,484
3 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies