Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonparametric Tests for Constant Tail Dependence with an Application to Energy and Finance

Forthcoming in Journal of Econometrics

46 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2014 Last revised: 4 Feb 2015

Axel Bücher

Ruhr University of Bochum

Stefan Jäschke

RWE Group - RWE Supply & Trading GmbH

Dominik Wied

University of Cologne

Date Written: September 22, 2014

Abstract

The present paper proposes new tests for detecting structural breaks in the tail dependence of multivariate time series using the concept of tail copulas. To obtain asymptotic properties, we derive a new limit result for the sequential empirical tail copula process. Moreover, consistency of both the tests and a break-point estimator are proven. We analyze the finite sample behavior of the tests by Monte Carlo simulations. Finally, and crucial from a risk management perspective, we apply the new findings to datasets from energy and financial markets.

Keywords: Break-point detection, Multiplier bootstrap, Tail dependence, Weak convergence

JEL Classification: C12, C14, C32, C58, G32

Suggested Citation:

Bücher, Axel and Jäschke, Stefan and Wied, Dominik, Nonparametric Tests for Constant Tail Dependence with an Application to Energy and Finance (September 22, 2014). Forthcoming in Journal of Econometrics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2422386 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2422386
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,649
RANK
390,788
3 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies