Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scoundrels or Stars? Theory and Evidence on the Quality of Workers in Online Labor Markets

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Apr 2014 Last revised: 10 Mar 2016

Anne M. Farrell

Miami University Farmer School of Business - Department of Accountancy

Jonathan H. Grenier

Miami University - Department of Accountancy

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: March 9, 2016

Abstract

Online labor markets allow rapid recruitment of large numbers of workers for very low pay. Although online workers are often used as research participants, there is little evidence that they are motivated to make costly choices to forego wealth or leisure that are often central to addressing accounting research questions. Thus, we investigate the validity of using online workers as a proxy for non-experts when accounting research designs use more demanding tasks than these workers typically complete. Three experiments examine the costly choices of online workers relative to student research participants. We find that online workers are at least as willing as students to make costly choices, even at significantly lower wages. We also find that online workers are sensitive to performance-based wages, which are just as effective in inducing high effort as high fixed wages. We discuss implications of our results for conducting accounting research with online workers.

Keywords: online labor markets, Mechanical Turk, honesty, effort, performance-based pay

Suggested Citation:

Farrell, Anne M. and Grenier, Jonathan H. and Leiby, Justin, Scoundrels or Stars? Theory and Evidence on the Quality of Workers in Online Labor Markets (March 9, 2016). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2424718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2424718
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,344
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies