Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Reporting Incentives and Accounting Standards Substitutes or Complements in Achieving Accounting Comparability?

40 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2014

Sudarshan Jayaraman

Simon Business School, University of Rochester; University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: April 23, 2014

Abstract

We find that they are complements. We subject our sample of 15 European Union (EU) countries to two regulatory changes: (i) the adoption of the common euro currency in 1999 that resulted in a convergence in reporting incentives and (ii) the subsequent adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in 2005 that resulted in a convergence in accounting standards. We first document that the convergence in reporting incentives brought about by euro adoption increased financial reporting convergence, and that this convergence is driven by capital market integration rather than product market integration. To examine the interaction between reporting incentives and accounting standards, we condition the effect of IFRS adoption in 2005 on euro membership. We find greater financial reporting convergence after IFRS adoption but only in euro countries, suggesting that the convergence in reporting incentives and the convergence in accounting standards act as complements. We also find that both capital market and product market integration contribute to the complementarity between incentives and standards at the adoption of IFRS. Our findings are relevant to academics as well as regulators evaluating the implications of convergence in accounting standards around the world.

Keywords: Reporting incentives, accounting standards, IFRS, comparability, Euro, EU

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Verdi, Rodrigo S., Are Reporting Incentives and Accounting Standards Substitutes or Complements in Achieving Accounting Comparability? (April 23, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2428263 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2428263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP Differences: The Impact on Foreign Analysts , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS: Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
587
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,357
RANK
106,095
8 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies