Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Accounting Reporting Complexity with XBRL

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 6 May 2014 Last revised: 8 May 2020

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: April 20, 2017

Abstract

We propose a new measure of accounting reporting complexity (ARC) based on the count of accounting items (XBRL tags) disclosed in 10-K filings. The preparation and disclosure of more accounting items is complicated because it requires greater knowledge of authoritative accounting standards. This aspect of complexity can increase the likelihood of mistakes, incorrect application of GAAP, and can ultimately lead to less credible financial reports. Consistently, we find that ARC is associated with a greater likelihood of misstatements and material weakness disclosures, longer audit delay, and higher audit fees. In comparison to commonly-used measures of operating and linguistic complexity, the associations between ARC and these outcomes are more consistent, exhibit greater explanatory power, and have stronger economic significance. These and additional validation and robustness tests suggest that ARC more completely reflects accounting complexity. In addition, ARC exhibits several advantageous properties, including across- and within-firm variation, availability for the universe of SEC filers and a direct connection to accounting, inherent in its derivation from detailed accounting disclosures. Finally, because it relies on a comprehensive set of detailed accounting data, ARC broadly captures accounting complexity, while at the same time it can be disaggregated into account-specific measures of complexity.

Data Availability: Data are available from http://www.xbrlresearch.com

Keywords: Accounting Complexity, XBRL, Financial Reporting Quality, Restatements, Internal Controls, Audit Fees, Accruals

JEL Classification: M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Measuring Accounting Reporting Complexity with XBRL (April 20, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2433677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2433677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Badertscher , B Jorgensen , S Katz , W Kinney
Public equity and audit pricing in the United States
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 339 Posted: 2014
Crossref
E M Bamber , L S Bamber , M P Schoderbek
Audit structure and other determinants of audit report lag: An empirical analysis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1993
M J Beck , E G Mauldin
Who's really in charge? Audit committee versus CFO power and audit fees
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 6 , p. 2057 - 2085 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,001
RANK
8,468
33 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies