Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Equity Analyst Research Lack Rigor and Objectivity? Evidence from Conference Call Questions and Research Notes

50 Pages Posted: 6 May 2014

Catherine Salzedo

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Steven Young

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Mahmoud El-Haj

Lancaster University - School of Computing and Communications; Lancaster University

Date Written: May 5, 2014

Abstract

Research questions the rigor and objectivity of analysts’ research due to the institutional structures in which they operate (Fogarty and Rogers, 2005 Accounting, Organisations and Society). However, insights from psychology highlight the need to condition this conclusion on the incentives for attributional search. Based on social cognition theory, we test whether the degree of diligence and criticality evident in analyst research is higher (lower) for negative (non-negative) schema-discrepant events. We evaluate this prediction against the null hypothesis that analyst research consistently lacks rigor and objectivity. We use earnings surprises as our schema-discrepant conditioning event, and examine the content of analysts’ conference call questions and research notes to assess the properties of their research. We find that levels of rigor and objectivity are statistically and economically higher for research conducted in response to negative earnings surprises. Findings are consistent with analysts’ innate cognitive processing response counteracting institutional considerations when attributional search incentives are strong. Results also reveal non-trivial levels of rigor and objectivity in response to non-negative schema-discrepant earnings news. Differences in the properties of analysts’ work are also evident for spoken and written modalities.

Keywords: Conference calls, research notes, earnings surprises

JEL Classification: G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Salzedo, Catherine and Young, Steven and El-Haj, Mahmoud, Does Equity Analyst Research Lack Rigor and Objectivity? Evidence from Conference Call Questions and Research Notes (May 5, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2433019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2433019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
J Abarbanell , B Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
The Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ali , A Klein , J Rosenfeld
Analysts' use of information about permanent and transitory earnings components in forecasting annual EPS
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 1992
O Altinkilic , R Hansen
On the information role of stock recommendation revisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 36 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,615
RANK
269,796
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies