Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Semiparametric Model Selection in Panel Data Models with Deterministic Trending and Cross-Sectional Dependence

35 Pages Posted: 10 May 2014

Jia Chen

University of Macau

Jiti Gao

Monash University - Department of Econometrics & Business Statistics

Date Written: May 8, 2014

Abstract

In this paper, we consider a model selection issue in semiparametric panel data models with fixed effects. The modelling framework under investigation can accommodate both nonlinear deterministic trends and cross-sectional dependence. And we consider the so-called "large panels" where both the time series and cross sectional sizes are very large. A penalised profile least squares method with first-stage local linear smoothing is developed to select the significant covariates and estimate the regression coefficients simultaneously. The convergence rate and the oracle property of the resulting semiparametric estimator are established by the joint limit approach. The developed semiparametric model selection methodology is illustrated by two Monte-Carlo simulation studies, where we compare the performance in model selection and estimation of three penalties, i.e., the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), the smoothly clipped absolute deviation (SCAD), and the minimax concave penalty (MCP).

Keywords: cross-sectional dependence, fixed effects, large panel, local linear fitting, penalty function, profile likelihood, semiparametric regression

JEL Classification: C13, C14, C23

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jia and Gao, Jiti, Semiparametric Model Selection in Panel Data Models with Deterministic Trending and Cross-Sectional Dependence (May 8, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2434618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2434618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M Arellano
Panel Data Econometrics Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bai
Panel data models with interactive fixed effects
Econometrica , volume 77 , p. 1229 - 1279 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Bai , C Kao , S Ng
Panel cointegration with global stochastic trends
Journal of Econometrics , volume 149 , p. 82 - 99 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B H Baltagi
Econometrics Analysis of Panel Data Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,624
RANK
514,660
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies