Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality and Disclosure Quality of Identifiable Intangible Assets: Evidence from Germany

Corporate Ownership and Control, Vol. 12 (2), 2015, p. 381-400

Posted: 10 May 2014 Last revised: 23 Feb 2015

Tobias Nell

Freiberg University of Mining and Technology

Martin Tettenborn

Freiberg University of Technology

Silvia Rogler

Freiberg University of Technology

Date Written: December 10, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines both the materiality of intangibles and the related disclosure quality under IFRS in the notes of firms on the German benchmark stock index DAX during the four-year period 2008-2011. As proxies, we use the relation of intangibles-to-equity (materiality) and a disclosure index of our design (disclosure quality) that measures both the volume and presentation of information. Furthermore and contrary to the majority of prior studies on the disclosure of intangibles, our index measures disclosure quality itself, and is not restricted to voluntary or mandatory disclosures. In accordance with our predictions, we find in general that intangibles are considerably material, but that the related disclosure quality is low and remains at that low level over the period analyzed. Additionally, both aspects differ widely between firms. Finally, we find support for the hypothesis that management disclosure policies place more emphasis on the amount of information than on its presentation. Our results illustrate and promote the need for the improved regulation of disclosures in the notes, as currently discussed by the major standard setters IASB and FASB.

Keywords: Disclosure Quality, Disclosure Index, Intangible Assets, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, M48, C43, G14

Suggested Citation:

Nell, Tobias and Tettenborn, Martin and Rogler, Silvia, Materiality and Disclosure Quality of Identifiable Intangible Assets: Evidence from Germany (December 10, 2013). Corporate Ownership and Control, Vol. 12 (2), 2015, p. 381-400, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2434669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2434669
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Hana Bohušová , Patrik Svoboda
Intangible Assets Reporting: the Case of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industry in the Czech Republic
Acta Universitatis Agriculturae et Silviculturae Mendelianae Brunensis , volume 66 , issue 2 , p. 431 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,083
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies