Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure and Asymmetry in Financial Reporting

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 17 May 2014 Last revised: 7 Jan 2015

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Robert P. Magee

Northwestern University

Date Written: May 15, 2014

Abstract

This article examines the demand for disclosure rules by informed managers interested in increasing the market price of their firms. Within a model of political influence, a majority of managers chooses disclosure rules with which all firms must comply. In equilibrium, disclosure rules are asymmetric with greater levels of disclosure over adverse events. This asymmetry is positively associated with the informativeness of the measurement and increasing in the level of verifiability and ex-ante uncertainty of the information. The theory also offers implications about the relationship between mandatory and voluntary disclosure, when both channels are endogenous.

Keywords: disclosure, law, accounting, valuation, regulation

JEL Classification: D2, D4, D7, G18, K2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy and Magee, Robert P., Mandatory Disclosure and Asymmetry in Financial Reporting (May 15, 2014). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2437588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Abigail Allen
Agenda setting at the FASB: Evidence from the role of the fasac Posted: 2012
Crossref
Abigail Allen , Karthik Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Amin H Amershi , Joel S Demski , Mark A Wolfson
Strategic behavior and regulation research in accounting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 32 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Nina Baranchuk , Philip H Dybvig
Consensus in diverse corporate boards
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 715 - 747 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,780
RANK
38,890
7 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies