Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Dependence, Tail Dependence, and the Time Interval over Which the Variables Are Measured

29 Pages Posted: 20 May 2014 Last revised: 21 May 2014

Byoung Uk Kang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Gunky Kim

Monash Business School

Date Written: May 20, 2014

Abstract

The effect of time interval on the linear correlation coefficient between random variables is well documented in the literature. In this paper, we investigate the time interval effect on asymmetric dependence and tail dependence between random variables. We prove that when two random variables are characterized by asymmetric dependence (in any direction), the magnitude of asymmetry in their dependence structure decreases monotonically as the time interval increases, approaching zero (i.e., symmetry) in the limit. Also, when two random variables exhibit tail dependence, their tail dependence decreases monotonically as the time interval increases, approaching zero (i.e., tail independence) in the limit. Our results hold regardless of whether the variables are both additive, both multiplicative, or one is additive and the other is multiplicative.

Keywords: Additive variables, Multiplicative variables, Copulas

JEL Classification: C15, C20, G12

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Byoung Uk and Kim, Gunky, Asymmetric Dependence, Tail Dependence, and the Time Interval over Which the Variables Are Measured (May 20, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2439074 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2439074
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M Alciatore , P Easton , N Spear
Accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets: Evidence from the petroleum industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 151 - 172 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ang , Chen , J
Asymmetric correlations of equity portfolios
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 63 , p. 443 - 494 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J E Core , D J Taylor , R E Verrecchia
When does information asymmetry affect the cost of capital?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Artstein , K M Ball , F Barthe , A Naor
Solution of Shannon's problem on the monotonicity of entropy
Journal of the American Mathematical Society , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 975 - 982 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,455
RANK
481,162
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies