Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts’ GAAP Earnings Forecasts and Their Implications for Accounting Research

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 25 May 2014 Last revised: 18 Jan 2018

Mark T Bradshaw

Boston College

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Kurt H. Gee

The Ohio State University

Benjamin C. Whipple

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

We examine analysts’ GAAP earnings forecasts and illustrate their usefulness in two prominent research settings. First, we find that the availability of GAAP forecasts has increased dramatically since 2003, and they are now available for most I/B/E/S-covered firms. Next, we utilize GAAP forecasts to solve important measurement error problems in prior research that attempts to examine GAAP forecast errors without an explicit GAAP forecast. We begin with research exploring investors’ preferences for GAAP versus non-GAAP earnings. We find that traditionally-identified GAAP forecast errors are subject to 37% measurement error. Nevertheless, in contrast to the pervasive caveats in the non-GAAP literature, evidence of an investor preference for non-GAAP earnings relative to GAAP earnings is robust after correcting for this measurement error. Second, we revisit the literature identifying firms that use non-GAAP exclusions to meet or beat analysts’ forecasts when GAAP earnings fall short of expectations. We find that 34% of the traditionally-identified meet-or-beat firms are misidentified due to measurement error and this misidentification masks the inference that firms more frequently exclude transitory expenses rather than recurring expenses for meet-or-beat purposes.

Keywords: Measurement error; Earnings expectations; Analysts’ forecasts; GAAP forecasts; Non-GAAP earnings; Street earnings; Earnings surprise; Meet-or-beat

JEL Classification: G14; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Bradshaw, Mark T and Christensen, Theodore E. and Gee, Kurt H. and Whipple, Benjamin C., Analysts’ GAAP Earnings Forecasts and Their Implications for Accounting Research (December 1, 2017). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2441367 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2441367
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
C Chen
Do analysts and investors fully understand the persistence of the items excluded from street earnings?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , p. 32 - 69 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T Christensen
Another look at GAAP versus the street: an empirical assessment of measurement error bias
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , p. 305 - 321 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T Christensen , M Drake , J Thornock
Optimistic reporting and pessimistic investing: Do pro forma earnings disclosures attract short sellers?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 67 - 102 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Christie , M Kennelley , W King , T Schaefer
Testing for incremental information content in the presence of collinearity
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 6 , p. 205 - 217 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
974
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,919
RANK
54,310
78 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies