Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting and Municipal Bond Rating Changes

Accounting Review, Vol. 56, No. 4, 1981

Posted: 11 Jul 2014 Last revised: 12 Jul 2014

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: October 1981

Abstract

Municipal bond rating changes can have significant consequences for both borrowers and investors. Multivariate discriminant analysis (MDA) was used to examine whether financial ratios could discriminate between cities that had their ratings upgraded or downgraded from an A rating. In addition, both the upgraded and the downgraded groups of cities were matched, using a paired sample design with a control group to examine the predictive ability of fiscal information. Fiscal variables do appear to be associated with rating revisions. In addition, it appears that rating revisions are more closely associated with operating working capital flow than the "total flow of resources" statement generated by current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).

Keywords: Municipal financial reporting, bond rating chages

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Raman, K. K., Financial Reporting and Municipal Bond Rating Changes (October 1981). Accounting Review, Vol. 56, No. 4, 1981, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2464174
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
738
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies