Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Open Market Share Repurchases in Germany: A Conditional Event Study Approach

Forthcoming Abacus, A Journal of Accounting, Finance and Business Studies

35 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2014 Last revised: 8 Apr 2016

Christian Andres

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

André Betzer

University of Wuppertal - Schumpeter School of Business and Economics

Markus Doumet

BUW- Schumpeter School of Business and Economics

Erik Theissen

University of Mannheim - Finance Area

Date Written: December 2, 2015

Abstract

We analyze the decision to announce an open market share repurchase and the share price reaction to the announcement. We use a conditional estimation approach which takes into account that the repurchase decision is made rationally and that, consequently, there is a potential selection bias. This approach requires a "non-event sample" of firms that could reasonably be expected to announce a repurchase but did not. The specific institutional rules for share repurchases in Germany allow us to construct such a sample. We find that a conditional approach yields results that are qualitatively comparable but differ in detail from those obtained using a non-conditional approach. We confirm earlier findings of negative share price performance prior to the repurchase announcement and positive and significant announcement day abnormal returns. The results of our probit models are consistent with the free cash flow hypothesis and provide at least partial support for the rent extraction, signalling, and capital structure hypothesis. The results of the cross-sectional regressions provide support for the signalling hypothesis once we control for selection bias.

Keywords: Repurchases, Event Study, Selection Bias

JEL Classification: G14, G35

Suggested Citation:

Andres, Christian and Betzer, André and Doumet, Markus and Theissen, Erik, Open Market Share Repurchases in Germany: A Conditional Event Study Approach (December 2, 2015). Forthcoming Abacus, A Journal of Accounting, Finance and Business Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467543 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2467543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
S Acharya
A generalized econometric model and tests of a signaling hypothesis with two discrete signals
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , p. 413 - 429 Posted: 1988
Crossref
A C Akyol , C Foo
Share repurchase reasons and the market reaction to actual share repurchases: Evidence from australia
International Review of Finance , volume 13 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Y Amihud , M Murgia
Dividends, taxes, and signaling: evidence from germany
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 397 - 408 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C Andres , A Betzer , I Van Den , M Bongard , Goergen
Dividend policy, corporate control and the tax status of the controlling shareholder Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,460
RANK
201,467
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies