Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Left-Right Scale a Valid Measure of Ideology? Individual-Level Variation in Associations with 'Left' and 'Right' and Left-Right Self-Placement

Bauer, P. C., Barberá, P., Ackermann, K., & Venetz, A. (2015). Is the Left-Right Scale a Valid Measure of Ideology?. Political Behavior, 1-31. doi:10.1007/s11109-016-9368-2

Posted: 18 Jul 2014 Last revised: 7 Nov 2016

Paul C. Bauer

Mannheim Centre for European Social Research (MZES)

Pablo Barbera

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Kathrin Ackermann

University of Bern

Aaron Venetz

University of Bern - Institute of Political Science

Date Written: July 31, 2015

Abstract

In order to measure ideology, political scientists heavily rely on the so-called left-right scale. Left and right are, however, abstract political concepts and may trigger different associations among respondents. If these associations vary systematically with other variables this may induce bias in the empirical study of ideology. We illustrate this problem using a unique survey that asked respondents open-ended questions regarding the meanings they attribute to the concepts “left” and “right”. We assess and categorize this textual data using topic modeling techniques. Our analysis shows that variation in respondents’ associations is systematically related to their self-placement on the left-right scale and also to variables such as education and respondents’ cultural background (East vs. West Germany). Our findings indicate that the interpersonal comparability of the left-right scale across individuals is impaired. More generally, our study suggests that we need more research on how respondents interpret various abstract concepts that we regularly use in survey questions.

Keywords: Left-right scale, Ideology, Left, Right, Survey measurement, Interpersonal comparability, Measurement equivalence

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Paul C. and Barbera, Pablo and Ackermann, Kathrin and Venetz, Aaron, Is the Left-Right Scale a Valid Measure of Ideology? Individual-Level Variation in Associations with 'Left' and 'Right' and Left-Right Self-Placement (July 31, 2015). Bauer, P. C., Barberá, P., Ackermann, K., & Venetz, A. (2015). Is the Left-Right Scale a Valid Measure of Ideology?. Political Behavior, 1-31. doi:10.1007/s11109-016-9368-2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467595 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2467595
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,517
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies