Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM) in Management Accounting Research: Directions for Future Theory Development

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2014 Last revised: 27 May 2016

Christian Nitzl

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

In management accounting research, the capabilities of Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM) have only partially been utilized. These yet unexploited capabilities of PLS-SEM are a useful tool in the often explorative state of research in management accounting. After reviewing eleven top-ranked management accounting journals through the end of 2013, 37 articles in which PLS-SEM is used are identified. These articles are analysed based on multiple relevant criteria to determine the progress in this research area, including the reasons for using PLS-SEM, the characteristics of the data and the models, and model evaluation and reporting. A special focus is placed on the degree of importance of these analysed criteria for the future development of management accounting research. To ensure continued theoretical development in management accounting, this article also offers recommendations to avoid common pitfalls and provides guidance for the advanced use of PLS-SEM in management accounting research.

Keywords: Management Accounting, Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling, PLS

Suggested Citation:

Nitzl, Christian, Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM) in Management Accounting Research: Directions for Future Theory Development (2016). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2469802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2469802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
170 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Leadership and control system design
Management Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 16 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
The Role of Performance Measures in the Intertemporal Decisions of Business Unit Managers
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 925 - 961 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Albers
PLS and Success Factor Studies in Marketing
Handbook of Partial Least Squares: Concepts, Methods and Applications , p. 409 - 425 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S W Anderson , J W Hesford , S M Young
Factors Influencing the Performance of Activity Based Costing Teams: A Field Study of ABC Model Development Time in the Automobile Industry. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 195 - 211 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
11 Citations
Katrin Hummel , Dieter Pfaff , Benedikt Bisig
Can the Integration of a Tax Compliant Transfer Pricing System Into the Management Control System Be Successful? Yes, It Can!
Journal of Accounting and Organizaional Change, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 3 May 2016 · Last revised: 17 Apr 2018 · Downloads: 590
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Madhavi Kapoor , Vijita Aggarwal
Comprehending a knowledge framework as a source of dynamic capabilities in IJVs through PLS-SEM
Journal of Knowledge Management , volume ahead-of-print , issue ahead-of-print Posted: 2021
Crossref
Katrin Hummel , Dieter Pfaff , Benedikt Bisig
Can the integration of a tax-compliant transfer pricing system into the management control system be successful?
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 198 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Christian Nitzl , Bernhard Hirsch
The Drivers of a Superior’s Trust Formation in his Subordinate: The Manager-Management Accountant Example
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change, Forthcoming · 48 Pages · Posted: 10 Aug 2012 · Last revised: 14 Feb 2016 · Downloads: 540
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,028
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,523
RANK
50,383
11 Citations
170 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies