Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does PSM Really Eliminate the Big N Audit Quality Effect?

Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 02.14

48 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2014 Last revised: 10 Mar 2016

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

David H. Erkens

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Jieying Zhang

The University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: March 9, 2016

Abstract

A large auditing literature concludes that Big N auditors provide higher audit quality than non-Big N auditors. Recently, however, a high profile study suggests that Propensity Score Matching (PSM) on client characteristics eliminates the Big N effect (Lawrence, Minutti-Meza, and Zhang 2011, hereafter, LMZ). We conjecture that this finding may be affected by PSM’s sensitivity to its design choices and/or by the validity of the audit quality measures used in the analysis. To investigate, we examine random combinations of PSM design choices that achieve covariate balance, and four commonly used audit quality measures. We find that the majority of these design choices support a Big N effect for most of the audit quality measures. Overall, our findings show that it is premature to suggest that PSM eliminates the Big N effect.

Keywords: Big N auditors, Audit quality, Matching

JEL Classification: M41, C13, C14, C15

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Erkens, David Hendrik and Zhang, Jieying, Does PSM Really Eliminate the Big N Audit Quality Effect? (March 9, 2016). Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 02.14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2472092 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2472092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M Ali , R Groenwold , S Belitsera , W Pestmanc , A Hoesb , K Roesb , A Boera , O Klungel
Reporting of covariate selection and balance assessment in propensity score analysis is suboptimal: a systematic review
J. Clin. Epidemiol , volume 68 , p. 122 - 131 Posted: 2015
Crossref
E Altman
Corporate distress: A complete guide to predicting, avoiding and dealing with bankruptcy Posted: 1983
Daniel Aobdia
Do Practitioner Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality? Evidence from PCAOB and Internal Inspections
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming Pages: 74 Posted: 12 Jul 2015 Last revised: 14 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Archambeault , T Dezoort , D Hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements
Contemp. Account. Res , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 992 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,771
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,623
RANK
22,502
4 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies