Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Measure of Disclosure Quality: The Level of Disaggregation of Accounting Data in Annual Reports

62 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2014 Last revised: 27 Aug 2015

Shuping Chen

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Bin Miao

National University of Singapore

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: August 26, 2015

Abstract

We construct a new, parsimonious, measure of disclosure quality – disaggregation quality (DQ) – and offer validation tests. DQ captures the level of disaggregation of accounting data through a count of non-missing Compustat line items, and reflects the extent of details in firms’ annual reports. Conceptually DQ differs from existing disclosure measures in that it captures the ‘fineness’ of data and is based on a comprehensive set of accounting line items in annual reports. Unlike existing measures which are usually applicable for a subset of firms or are based on a subset of information items, DQ can be generated for the universe of Compustat industrial firms. We conduct three sets of validation tests by examining DQ’s association with variables predicted by prior literature to be associated with information quality. DQ is negatively (positively) associated with analyst forecast dispersion (accuracy), negatively associated with bid-ask spreads and cost of equity. These associations continue to hold after we control for firm fundamentals. Taken together, results from this battery of validation tests are consistent with our measure capturing disclosure quality.

Keywords: disclosure quality, disaggregation of data items, annual reports, Compustat

JEL Classification: M41, D83

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shuping and Miao, Bin and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., A New Measure of Disclosure Quality: The Level of Disaggregation of Accounting Data in Annual Reports (August 26, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2475624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2475624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
D Amiram , O Owens , Rozenbaum
Do Information Releases Increase or Decrease Information Asymmetry? New Evidence from Analysts Forecast Announcements Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaiffe , D Collins , W Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Baginski , K Rakow
Management Earnings Forecast Disclosure Policy and the Cost of Equity Capital
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 279 - 321 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Bens , P Berger , S Monohan
Discretionary Disclosure in Financial Reporting: An Examination Comparing Internal Firm Data to Externally Reported Segment Data
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 449 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
117 Citations
Frank Heflin , James Moon , Dana Wallace
A Re-Examination of the Cost of Capital Benefits from Higher Quality Disclosures
59 Pages · Posted: 24 Oct 2014 · Last revised: 4 Sep 2015 · Downloads: 373
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael S. Drake , Darren T. Roulstone , Jacob Thornock
The Usefulness of Historical Accounting Reports
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 48 Pages · Posted: 13 Jun 2012 · Last revised: 10 Dec 2015 · Downloads: 660
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lei Chen
The Informational Role of Short Sellers – The Evidence from Short Sellers’ Reports on U.S.-Listed Chinese Firms
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming · 54 Pages · Posted: 27 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 23 Nov 2016 · Downloads: 480
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Astrid Rudyanto
State Ownership, Family Ownership, and Sustainability Report Quality: The Moderating Role of Board Effectiveness
GATR Accounting and Finance Review , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 15 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
52,540
RANK
16,621
117 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies