Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Designing an If-Then Rules Based Ensemble of Heterogeneous Bankruptcy Classifiers: A Genetic Algorithm Approach

Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance and Management (2014). DOI:10.1002/isaf.1354

26 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2014 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Sergio Davalos

University of Washington, Tacoma - Milgard School of Business

Fei Leng

University of Washington, Tacoma

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Zhiyan Cao

University of Washington Tacoma

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

We propose a framework for an ensemble bankruptcy classifier that uses if-then rules to combine the outputs from a heterogeneous set classifiers. A genetic algorithm (GA) induces the rules using an asymmetric, cost-sensitive fitness function that includes accuracy and misclassification costs. The GA-based ensemble classifier outperforms individual classifiers and ensemble classifiers generated by other methods. The results of the classifier are in the in the form of if-then rules. We apply the approach to a balanced data set and an imbalanced data set. Both are composed of firms subject to financial distress and cited in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAER).

Keywords: Ensemble, Genetic Algorithm, If then Rule Based, Bankruptcy Classifications, Asymmetric Cost Function, SEC, AAER, Accounting and Political Economy

Suggested Citation:

Davalos, Sergio and Leng, Fei and Feroz, Ehsan H. and Cao, Zhiyan, Designing an If-Then Rules Based Ensemble of Heterogeneous Bankruptcy Classifiers: A Genetic Algorithm Approach (2014). Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance and Management (2014). DOI:10.1002/isaf.1354, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2477625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
RANK
552,669
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies