Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Forecast Dispersion Anomaly Revisted: Time-Series Forecast Dispersion and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns

Journal of Empirical Finance, Vol. 39, 2016

27th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2014 Paper

46 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2014 Last revised: 18 Feb 2017

Dongcheol Kim

Korea University Business School

Haejung Na

California State University, Los Angeles

Date Written: September 1, 2016

Abstract

Previous studies use cross-sectional forecast dispersion in examining the relation between forecast dispersion and future stock returns and report an anomalous negative dispersion-return relation. This paper examines how time-series forecast dispersion is distinct in the relation to stock returns from the negative dispersion-return relation. We find that contrary to the previously-known negative dispersion-return relation, there is a strong positive relation between time-series forecast dispersion and stock returns. We also find that time-series forecast dispersion apparently contains systematic risk components and that such risk is priced in stock returns.

Keywords: Time-series forecast dispersion; Cross-sectional forecast dispersion; Analysts' earnings forecasts; Systematic risk components; Idiosyncratic volatility; Macroeconomic conditions

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Dongcheol and Na, Haejung, The Forecast Dispersion Anomaly Revisted: Time-Series Forecast Dispersion and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns (September 1, 2016). Journal of Empirical Finance, Vol. 39, 2016, 27th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2014 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2478764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2478764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,683
RANK
285,293
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies