Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing for Cumulative Abnormal Returns in Event Studies with the Rank Test

41 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2014 Last revised: 19 Aug 2014

Terhi Hagnäs

University of Vaasa - Department of Mathematics and Statistics

Seppo Pynnonen

University of Vaasa - Department of Mathematics and Statistics

Date Written: August 12, 2014

Abstract

Because of non-normality of stock returns nonparametric rank tests are gaining incremental popularity over parametric tests in event studies. In rank tests multiple day cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) are replaced by cumulated ranks. We propose modifications to the existing approach that improve robustness to event induced volatility, give accurate large sample distribution of the statistic, and improve small sample approximation of the distribution. Simulations with actual returns show that the proposed rank test is well specified in testing CARs, is robust, and exhibits superior (empirical) power relative to popular parametric tests.

Keywords: Finance, Event study, Cumulated ranks, Standardized abnormal returns, Asymptotic distribution

JEL Classification: G14, C10, C15

Suggested Citation:

Hagnäs, Terhi and Pynnonen, Seppo, Testing for Cumulative Abnormal Returns in Event Studies with the Rank Test (August 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2479228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2479228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Ataullah , X Song , M Tippet
A modified Corrado test for assessing abnormal security reurns
European Journal of Finance , volume 17 , p. 589 - 601 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting long-run abnormal returns: The empirical power and specification test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 1997
Crossref
W H Beaver
The information content of annual announcements
Journal of Accounting research Supplement , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E Boehmer , J Musumeci , A B Poulsen
Event-study methodology under conditions of event-induced variance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 30 , p. 253 - 272 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,485
RANK
39,450
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies