Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IPO Survival and Institutional Investment

32 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2014

Susanne Espenlaub

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Arif Khurshed

University of Manchester - Manchester Business School, Division of Accounting Finance

Abdul Mohamed

Cranfield University - School of Management; Cranfield School of Management

Brahim Saadouni

Alliance Manchester Business School, The University of Manchester

Date Written: August 17, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the survival rates of initial public offerings (IPOs) listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange between 1990 and 2010 and tracked until the end of 2013. The results show that the average survival rates on the Hong Kong market are high compared to other developed markets and the lowest is 78 percent over five years post listing. Furthermore, we find that the IPO firms are exposed to low failure risks even during and after financial crises. Investigating the determinants of survival rates, we find that the proportions of shares allocated to institutional investors and investor demand at the time of listing, along with initial investors’ retained ownership, significantly increase survival rates. In addition, the survival rates are high when the IPO is family controlled and investors have long term investment horizon.

Keywords: survival, IPO, new listings, institutional allocation, demand multiple, Hong Kong

JEL Classification: G39

Suggested Citation:

Espenlaub, Susanne and Khurshed, Arif and Mohamed, Abdul and Mohamed, Abdul and Saadouni, Brahim, IPO Survival and Institutional Investment (August 17, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2481855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
P ; D B Allison , E E Lehmann
The effects of experience, ownership, and knowledge on IPO survival: Empirical evidence from Germany
SAS Institute Publishing: Texas Audretsch , volume 4 , p. 13 - 33 Posted: 2000
C Baum
An introduction to modern econometrics using Stata , p. 78 - 82 Posted: 2006
M Bradburn , T Clark , S Love , D Altman
Survival analysis part II: multivariate data analysis-an introduction to concepts and methods
British Journal of Cancer , volume 89 , p. 431 - 436 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Bradley , J Cooney , S Dolvin , Jordan , B
Penny stock IPOs
Financial Management , volume 39 , p. 5 - 29 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,928
RANK
531,260
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies