Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controls and Cooperation in Interactive and Non-Interactive Settings

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2014 Last revised: 14 Jun 2018

Jace Garrett

Clemson University

Jeffrey A. Livingston

Bentley University - Department of Economics

William B. Tayler

Brigham Young University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 5, 2018

Abstract

Prior research finds that controls that induce cooperation among collaborators on a project increase trust, and that this increased trust increases subsequent cooperation among collaborators. We extend this work by investigating how controls influence cooperative behavior in two settings. The first is an interactive setting where people work together and can benefit from each other’s work. The second is a non-interactive setting where people do not work together directly, but where behavior can be observed. We propose that because controls are likely to engender greater trust and reciprocity in interactive settings than in non-interactive settings, the effect of controls on future cooperative behavior will be greater for controls in interactive settings than for controls in non-interactive settings. We find that controls in both settings increase future cooperative behavior, but the effect is significantly greater in interactive settings (where reciprocity and trust are more likely to develop). Furthermore, this increased cooperation is observed in an uncontrolled task, suggesting that the control fosters trust in others, rather than trust in the control. These findings suggest that the benefits of controls are more substantial in work environments characterized by extensive teamwork and where employees benefit from each other’s work.

Keywords: trust, control system, reciprocity, Attribution Theory

JEL Classification: C91, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Garrett, Jace and Livingston, Jeffrey A. and Tayler, William B., Controls and Cooperation in Interactive and Non-Interactive Settings (May 5, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2482402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2482402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
C Bellemare , S Kroeger
On representative social capital
European Economic Review , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 183 - 202 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
C D Batson , A A Powell
Altruism and Prosocial Behavior
Handbook of Psychology , p. 463 - 489 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Berg , J Dickhaut , K Mccabe
Trust, Reciprocity, and Social History
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 122 - 142 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,380
RANK
324,308
6 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies