Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Market Returns and GDP News

Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance

44 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2014 Last revised: 8 Nov 2021

Panos N. Patatoukas

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: August 30, 2019

Abstract

What is the link between stock returns and news about economic growth? Using consensus forecasts from the Philadelphia Fed’s Survey of Professional Forecasters, I find that the univariate association between stock returns and GDP growth forecast surprises is indistinguishable from zero. While consistent with prior macro-finance research, this phenomenon is intriguing if one believes that the stock market should move in sync with the economy. I consider two non-mutually exclusive hypotheses for this puzzling phenomenon. The first hypothesis is that GDP growth forecast surprises are correlated with offsetting cash flow news and discount rate news. The second hypothesis is that GDP growth forecast surprises measure news about economic growth with noise. I extract a measure of market-level discount rate news using accounting data and find evidence consistent with the hypothesis of offsetting value-relevant news. Overall, the paper makes an important step towards resolving evidence of a disconnect between stock market returns and news about economic growth. More broadly, the paper illustrates how accounting constructs and methods can be applied to inform macro-finance questions.

Keywords: GDP Growth; Stock Market Returns; Macro Accounting

JEL Classification: E44; G10; M41

Suggested Citation:

Patatoukas, Panos N., Stock Market Returns and GDP News (August 30, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2484185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2484185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
H Baghestani , A M Kianian
On the rationality of US macroeconomic forecasts: evidence from a panel of professional forecasters
Applied Economics , volume 25 , issue 7 , p. 869 - 878 Posted: 1993
R J Barro
The stock market and investment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 131 Posted: 1990
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
B S Bernanke , A S Blinder
The Federal funds rate and the channels of monetary transmission
American Economic Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 901 - 921 Posted: 1992
Load more
2 Citations
Elizabeth Demers , Fabio B. Gaertner , Asad Kausar , Heather Li , Logan B. Steele
Aggregate Tone and Gross Domestic Product
47 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 7 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 273
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel A. Cohen , Yiwen Li , Ron Shalev
Uncertainty of Firm Operating Environment and the Usefulness of Management Forward-Looking Information
Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4147973 · 50 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 153
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
659
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,600
RANK
91,487
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies