Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Financial Misrepresentation

85 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2014 Last revised: 25 Jun 2018

Jonathan Black

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Mattias Nilsson

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Roberto Pinheiro

Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland

Maximiliano Silva

Federal University of ABC

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 20, 2018

Abstract

We examine the link between information produced by auditors and analysts and fraud duration. Using a hazard model, we analyze misstatement periods related to SEC accounting and auditing enforcement releases (AAERs) between 1982 and 2012. Results suggest that misconduct is more likely to end just after firms announce an auditor switch; or issue audited financial statements, particularly when the audit report contains explanatory language. Analyst following increases the fraud termination hazard. However, increases (decreases) in analyst coverage have a negative (positive) marginal impact on the termination hazard, suggesting that analysts signal whistleblowers with their choice to add or drop coverage. Finally, our results suggest that misconduct lasts longer when it is well planned, more complex, or involves more accrual manipulation. Taken together, our findings are consistent with auditors and analysts playing a key informational role in fraud detection, while managerial effort to conceal misconduct significantly extends its duration.

Keywords: Fraud duration; Information production; Fraud effort; Auditor reports; Hazard models

JEL Classification: G34; G38; K22; K42; L51; M41

Suggested Citation:

Black, Jonathan and Nilsson, Mattias and Pinheiro, Roberto and Silva, Maximiliano, Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Financial Misrepresentation (June 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2485555 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2485555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M S Beasley , J Carcello , D Hermanson , T Neal
Fraudulent financial reporting: 1998-2007-an analysis of us public companies Posted: 2010
W H Beaver , M Correia , M F Mcnichols
Do differences in financial reporting attributes impair the predictive ability of financial ratios for bankruptcy?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 969 - 1010 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Messod Daniel Beneish , Charles M.C. Lee , D. Craig Nichols
Fraud Detection and Expected Returns
Pages: 53 Posted: 5 Feb 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Bischof , H Daske
Mandatory disclosure, voluntary disclosure, and stock market liquidity: Evidence from the eu bank stress tests
Journal of accounting research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 997 - 1029 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,857
RANK
132,890
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Shocks: Evidence from Exogenous Changes in Analyst Coverage

By François Derrien and Ambrus Kecskes

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies