Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Irregular Time Series Through Non-Uniform Fast Fourier Transform

Proceedings of the International Conference for High Performance Computating, IEEE, 2014.

26 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2014 Last revised: 8 Oct 2014

Jung Heon Song

University of California, Berkeley - Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab)

Marcos Lopez de Prado

Abu Dhabi Investment Authority; Cornell University - Operations Research & Industrial Engineering; ADIA Lab; True Positive Technologies

Horst Simon

University of California, Berkeley - Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab)

Kesheng Wu

University of California, Berkeley - Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab)

Date Written: August 26, 2014

Abstract

One of the fundamental shortcoming of the popular analysis tools for time series is that they require the data to be taken at uniform time intervals. However, the real-world time series, such as those from financial markets, are mostly from irregular time intervals. It is a common practice to resample the irregular time series into a regular one, but, there are significant limitations on this practice. For example, if one is to resample the trading activities on a stock into hourly series, then the time series can only last through the trading day because there usually is no trading in the night. In this work, we directly explore the dynamics of irregular time series through a tool known as Non-Uniform Fast Fourier Transform (NUFFT). To illustrate its effectiveness, we apply NUFFT on the trading records of natural gas futures contracts for the last seven years. Results accurately capture well-known structural features in the trading records, such as weekly and daily cycles, and at the same time also reveal unknown or unexplored features, such as the presence of multiple power laws. In particular, we observe a new power law in the Fourier spectra in recent years.

Keywords: In-homogeneous Time Series, Non-Uniform Fourier Transform, High Frequency Trading, Sampling Frequency, Volume Time

JEL Classification: C02, D52, D53, G14

Suggested Citation:

Song, Jung Heon and López de Prado, Marcos and Simon, Horst and Wu, Kesheng, Exploring Irregular Time Series Through Non-Uniform Fast Fourier Transform (August 26, 2014). Proceedings of the International Conference for High Performance Computating, IEEE, 2014., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2487656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2487656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
P Babu , P Stoica
Spectral analysis of nonuniformly sampled data -a review
Digital Signal Processing , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 378 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Matthew Baron , Jonathan Brogaard , Björn Hagströmer , Andrei A. Kirilenko
Risk and Return in High-Frequency Trading
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming Pages: 82 Posted: 6 May 2014 Last revised: 29 May 2024
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Bauwens , D Veredas
The stochastic conditional duration model: a latent variable model for the analysis of financial durations
Journal of econometrics , volume 119 , issue 2 , p. 381 - 412 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Bloomfield
Fourier analysis of time series: an introduction Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,647
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,952
RANK
25,180
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies