Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multiscale Stochastic Volatility Model with Heavy Tails and Leverage Effects

Posted: 2 Sep 2014

Tony S. Wirjanto

University of Waterloo, Department of Statistics & Actuarial Science; University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Zhongxian Men

Independent

Adam Kolkiewicz

Independent

Date Written: September 1, 2014

Abstract

This paper extends the multiscale stochastic volatility (MSSV) models to allow for heavy tails of the marginal distribution of the asset returns and correlation between the innovation of the mean equation and the innovations of the latent factor processes. Novel algorithms of Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) are developed to estimate parameters of these models. Results of simulation studies suggest that our proposed models and corresponding estimation methodology perform quite well. We also apply an auxiliary particle filter technique to construct one-step-ahead in-sample and out-of-sample volatility forecasts of the fitted models. In addition the models and MCMC methods are applied to data sets of asset returns from both foreign currency and equity markets.

Keywords: Stochastic Volatility; Bayesian Inference; Markov Chain Monte Carlo; Leverage Effect; Acceptance-rejection; Slice Sampler.

JEL Classification: C10; C41; G10

Suggested Citation:

Wirjanto, Tony S. and Men, Zhongxian and Kolkiewicz, Adam, Multiscale Stochastic Volatility Model with Heavy Tails and Leverage Effects (September 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2490029
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,166
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies