Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bayesian Inference of Multiscale Stochastic Conditional Duration Models

Posted: 3 Sep 2014

Tony S. Wirjanto

University of Waterloo, Department of Statistics & Actuarial Science; University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Zhongxian Men

Independent

Adam Kolkiewicz

Independent

Date Written: September 1, 2014

Abstract

In this paper we revisit the notion that a single factor of duration running on single time scale is adequate to capture the dynamics of the duration process of financial transaction data. The documented poor fit of the left tail of the marginal distribution of the observed durations in some existing one-factor stochastic duration models may be indicative of the possible existence of multiple stochastic duration factors running on different time scales. This paper proposes multiscale stochastic conditional duration (MSCD) models to describe the dynamics of duration of financial transaction data. Suitable algorithms of MCMC are developed to fit the resulting MSCD models under three distributional assumptions about the innovation of the measurement equation. Simulation studies suggest that our proposed models and methods result in improved in-sample fits as well as improved duration forecasts. Applications of our models and methods to two duration data sets of FIAT and IBM indicate the existence of at least two factors governing the dynamics of the duration of the stock transactions.

Keywords: Markov Chain Monte Carlo; Multiscale; Auxiliary particle filter; Probability integral transform; Deviance information criterion.

JEL Classification: C10; C41; G10

Suggested Citation:

Wirjanto, Tony S. and Men, Zhongxian and Kolkiewicz, Adam, Bayesian Inference of Multiscale Stochastic Conditional Duration Models (September 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2490013
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,272
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies