Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of EDGAR Filings by Investors

Journal of Behavioral Finance, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2014 Last revised: 4 Dec 2016

Tim Loughran

University of Notre Dame

Bill McDonald

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business - Department of Finance

Date Written: December 3, 2016

Abstract

Using data from the SEC’s EDGAR server log, we examine the consumption of financial information in filings from 2003 through 2012. The EDGAR filings represent a first-source database for investors doing fundamental research on stock valuations. The magnitude of daily EDGAR requests for 10-Ks is surprisingly low and shows only a small difference between firms with and without publicly-traded equity. The average publicly-traded firm has their annual report requested only 28.4 total times by investors immediately after the 10 K-filing. The lack of annual report requests suggests that investors generally are not doing fundamental research on stocks.

Keywords: EDGAR; fundamental research; information decay; web traffic; Form 10-K

JEL Classification: G14; G18; M41

Suggested Citation:

Loughran, Tim and McDonald, Bill, The Use of EDGAR Filings by Investors (December 3, 2016). Journal of Behavioral Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2493941 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2493941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
with ###.###.###.xxx -first three octets of the IP address with the fourth octet
Crossref
cik: SEC central index key associated with the document requested 6. accession: SEC document accession number associated with the document requested 7. extension: document file type (e.g., html, txt, etc.) 8. code: Apache log file status code for the request 9. filesize: document file size 10. idx: takes on a value of 1 if the requester has landed on the index page of a set of documents (e.g., -index.htm), and zero otherwise. 11. norefer: takes on a value of one if the Apache log file referrer field is empty, and zero otherwise 12
date: apache log file date 3. time: apache log file time 4. zone: apache log file zone 5
(action\=getcompany)/){$find=1}
(action\=getcurrent)/){$find=2}
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,000
RANK
13,453
26 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies