Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and 3 Group-Effect Risk Adjustments to Fair Market Comparators

Posted: 12 Sep 2014

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: September 1, 2014

Abstract

This paper considers 3 interlinked classes of adjustment for improving accuracy when benchmarking intra-group corporate loan rates against external fair market comparators.

The first class of adjustment is for “generalized implicit support”, i.e. calibrating the price of risk reduction (or indeed increase) for the borrower attributable to its special but informal mutual support links to the network of members in its corporate group.

The second class of adjustment is for “incremental knowledge of lending risk level” which would allow the intra-group lender to allocate a different objective risk rating to the intra-group borrower (e.g. based on the preparation process of group accounts or real-time private group management accounting reports) to the one an external lender would allocate.

The third class of adjustment is for “incremental knowledge of risk distributions and correlations” which would allow the intra-group lender to estimate a different objective risk value for the correlation of potential shocks to itself and the intra-group borrower (in an environment of imperfect markets and knowledge) to the one an external lender would allocate.

These adjustments will potentially range from basis point to percentage annual interest rate changes, with large potential deal net present value and tax impacts.

Keywords: transfer pricing, implicit support, generalized implicit support networks, benchmarking

JEL Classification: C70, D20, D40, G11, H80, H32, H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Macey-Dare, Rupert, Transfer Pricing and 3 Group-Effect Risk Adjustments to Fair Market Comparators (September 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2494918
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,396
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies