Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
TableMaker: An Excel Macro for Publication-Quality Tables

Hlavac, Marek. (2016). "TableMaker: An Excel Macro for Publication-Quality Tables", Journal of Statistical Software, Vol. 70, Code Snippet No. 3.

12 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2014 Last revised: 24 May 2017

Marek Hlavac

Social Policy Institute; Central European Labour Studies Institute (CELSI)

Date Written: April 25, 2016

Abstract

This article introduces TableMaker, an Excel macro that produces publication-quality tables and includes them as new sheets in workbooks. The macro provides an intuitive graphical user interface that allows for the full customization of all table features. It also allows users to save and load table templates, and thus allows layouts to be both reproducible and transferable. It is distributed in a single computer file. As such, the macro is easy to share, as well as accessible to even beginning and casual users of Excel. Since it allows for the quick creation of reproducible and fully customizable tables, TableMaker can be very useful to academics, policy-makers and businesses by making the presentation and formatting of results faster and more efficient.

Keywords: table, presentation, Microsoft Excel, Visual Basic for Applications

JEL Classification: C80, C81, C82, C87, C88, C89

Suggested Citation:

Hlavac, Marek, TableMaker: An Excel Macro for Publication-Quality Tables (April 25, 2016). Hlavac, Marek. (2016). "TableMaker: An Excel Macro for Publication-Quality Tables", Journal of Statistical Software, Vol. 70, Code Snippet No. 3., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2508827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2508827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,877
RANK
115,900
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Data Collection & Data Estimation Methodology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies