Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxpayers as a Disciplinary Mechanism in Governmental Budgeting: The Case of Balloting in School District Budgets

57 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2014

Yaw M. Mensah

Rutgers Business School - Newark & New Brunswick

Michael P. Schoderbek

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Min Cao

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Savita Sahay

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - New Brunswick/Piscataway

Date Written: October 1, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the influence of taxpayer balloting on budget levels and its relationship with standardized test results in New Jersey school districts. The relation between efficiency, effectiveness, and budget voting outcomes is analyzed over a ten-year sample period. Cost and production functions are jointly estimated, where the two endogenous variables are comparative cost per pupil and weighted test scores. From these regressions, efficiency and effectiveness scores are derived for each school district. Granger causality tests with controls for other factors are then used to determine the presumed direction of causality between efficiency, effectiveness, and voting outcomes.

We find a negative relation between the one-year lag of efficiency scores and the current year's effectiveness scores, and vice-versa. This negative feedback loop suggests that cutting costs in one year may have an adverse effect on test scores in the following year, and that higher test scores are followed by more spending in the subsequent year. However, overall, we find that more cost-efficient school districts also tend to be more test outcome-effective. As for voting outcomes, we find that a defeated budget (i.e., "no vote") is negatively related to efficiency, but positively related to effectiveness for the coming school year to which that budget relates. The negative relation suggests that the proposed budget observed by taxpayer's signals inefficiencies that are not cured by remedial actions taken in response to the negative vote, and that the negative vote is instead used as an incentive to improve performance (in lieu of making substantial reductions in the budget).

Keywords: Efficiency; Effectiveness; School District Budgets; Taxpayer Balloting

JEL Classification: C21, I22, M40

Suggested Citation:

Mensah, Yaw M. and Schoderbek, Michael P. and Cao, Min and Sahay, Savita, Taxpayers as a Disciplinary Mechanism in Governmental Budgeting: The Case of Balloting in School District Budgets (October 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2510327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2510327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Graduating Class 2012: New Jersey Posted: 2012
R Archibald , D Feldman
State higher education spending and the tax revolt
The Journal of Higher Education , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 618 - 644 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Bails , M Tieslau
The impact of fiscal constitutions on state and local expenditures
Cato Journal , volume 20 , p. 255 - 277 Posted: 2000
A Bowers , S Metzger , M Militello
Knowing what matters: An expanded study of school bond elections in michigan
Journal of Education Finance , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 374 - 396 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,870
RANK
735,901
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies