Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Consequences of Regulatory Accounting in the Nuclear Power Industry: Market Reaction to Plant Abandonments

Posted: 15 Aug 2001

Patricia J. Arnold

University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee

Rita Hartung Cheng

Northern Arizona University; University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Abstract

Between 1972 and 1990, US electric utility companies cancelled orders for 117 nuclear power plants (NEI, 1996, pp. 1-6). The regulatory accounting methods adopted by utility rate setting commissions determined whether utilities could recover the losses on cancelled plants through higher rates. In effect, the choice of accounting methods determined how billions of dollars invested in cancelled nuclear plants was allocated between utility stockholders, ratepayers, and taxpayers (DOE/EIA, 1983, pp. ix-x). Our paper examines the economic consequences to stockholders of capital project abandonments in a regulated industry. The results show that while regulatory treatment of abandonment costs was generally favorable to investors, the market reacted negatively to nuclear project abandonment announcements indicating that investors did not expect to fully recoup abandonment losses. Two stage regression is used to investigate the determinants of the market's reaction to project cancellations.

Suggested Citation:

Arnold, Patricia J. and Cheng, Rita Hartung and Cheng, Rita Hartung, The Economic Consequences of Regulatory Accounting in the Nuclear Power Industry: Market Reaction to Plant Abandonments. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=251287
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,027
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies