Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying Basic Gamification Techniques to IT Compliance Training: Evidence from the Lab and Field

38 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2014 Last revised: 22 Oct 2015

Ryan J. Baxter

Boise State University, College of Business and Economics, Department of Accountancy

Kip Holderness

West Virginia University

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 21, 2015

Abstract

Companies depend on strong internal controls to protect the integrity of accounting information systems. IT security and data privacy training are critical controls to safeguarding company information. However, employees often dislike the training, which can cause a lack of attention to and poor understanding of training concepts, leading to less effective internal controls. To improve the training experience, companies are implementing principles of games into employee training modules; a practice known as gamification. Using a laboratory experiment of data privacy training and a field study involving a publicly-traded bank’s rollout of IT security training, we test whether a training environment with basic gamification elements results in greater trainee satisfaction and knowledge acquisition than traditional, non-gamified training. We find basic gamification results in much higher satisfaction levels in the lab and field, but only marginally significant improvements in learning. Furthermore, these learning improvements are quite small (e.g., 1 to 3 percent). Finally, we find that “gamers” (i.e., those who participate in gaming on their own time) gain more knowledge from gamified training than “non-gamers,” even though gamers are less satisfied with gamified training.

Keywords: Gamification, information security, data privacy, compliance training

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49, J31, M53

Suggested Citation:

Baxter, Ryan J. and Holderness, Darin Kip and Wood, David A., Applying Basic Gamification Techniques to IT Compliance Training: Evidence from the Lab and Field (October 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2517022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2517022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M Ainley , J Ainley
Student engagement with science in early adolescence: The contribution of enjoyment to students' continuing interest in learning about science
Contemporary Educational Psychology , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 12 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Ainley , J Ainley
A cultural perspective on the structure of student interest in science
International Journal of Science Education , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 71 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Ainley , S Hidi
Interest and enjoyment. International handbook of emotions in education , p. 205 - 227 Posted: 2014
J R Anderson
Cognitive psychology and its implications Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
758
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,004
RANK
76,350
5 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies