Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of New Factor Models

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2015-03-05

HKUST Finance Symposium 2016: Active Investing and Arbitrage Capital

Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2015-05

67 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2014 Last revised: 19 Apr 2017

Kewei Hou

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance

Chen Xue

University of Cincinnati

Lu Zhang

Ohio State University - Fisher College of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 18, 2017

Abstract

Using hundreds of significant anomalies as testing portfolios, this paper compares the performance of major empirical asset pricing models. The q-factor model and a closely related five-factor model are the two best performing models among a long array of models. The q-factor model outperforms the five-factor model in factor spanning tests and in explaining momentum and profitability anomalies, but the five-factor model has an edge in explaining value-versus-growth anomalies. Investment and profitability, not liquidity, are the key driving forces in the broad cross section of expected stock returns.

Keywords: Q-factor model, investment-based asset pricing, capital markets anomalies, factor regressions

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Hou, Kewei and Xue, Chen and Zhang, Lu, A Comparison of New Factor Models (April 18, 2017). Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2015-03-05, HKUST Finance Symposium 2016: Active Investing and Arbitrage Capital, Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2015-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2520929 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2520929
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
Because we impose a four-month lag between earnings and the holding period month (and the book equity in the denominator of ROE is one-quarter-lagged relative to earnings), all the Compustat data in the backward imputation are at least four-month lagged relative to the portfolio formation month. If data are unavailable for the backward imputation, we impute the book equity for quarter t foron size, I/A, and ROE have at least ten firms. Following Beaver, McNichols, and Price
We first backward impute the beginning-of-quarter book equity as the end-of-quarter book equity minus quarterly earnings plus quarterly dividends. 5 Posted: 2007
When a delisting return is missing, we replace it with the mean of available delisting returns of the same delisting type and stock exchange in the prior 60 months Posted: 2017
Standardized unexpected earnings (Sue), prior 11-month returns, revenue surprises (Rs), tax expense surprises (Tes), and the number of consecutive quarters with earnings increases (Nei) are all insignificant at the 12-month horizon. In the value-versus-growth category, 30 out of 68 anomalies are insignificant. Debt-to-market (Dm), assets-to-market (Am), and dividend yield (Dp) are insignificant in annual sorts and monthly sorts at all horizons, and analysts' earnings forecasts-to-price (Efp), enterprise book-to-price (Ebp), and net debt-to-price (Ndp) are insignificant in all monthly sorts. In the investment category, only two out of 38 anomalies are insignificant, including change in non-current operating liabilities (dNcl) and change in short-term investments (dSti)
B Insignificant Anomalies with All-but-micro Breakpoints and Equal-weighted Returns There are in total 221 insignificant anomalies
Depending on availability, we use redemption value (item PSTKRV), liquidating (item PSTKL), or par value (item PSTK) for the book value of preferred stock. 5 Quarterly dividends are zero if dividends per share (item DVPSXQ) are zero. Otherwise, total dividends are dividends per share times beginning-of-quarter shares outstanding adjusted for stock splits during the quarter. Shares outstanding are from Compustat (quarterly item CSHOQ supplemented with annual item CSHO for fiscal quarter four) or CRSP (item SHROUT), and the share adjustment factor is from Compustat (quarterly item AJEXQ
Otherwise, we use the book value of common equity (item CEQ) plus the par value of preferred stock (item PSTK)
Load more
63 Citations
Dayong Dong , Keke Wu , Jianchun Fang , Giray Gozgor , Cheng Yan
Investor attention factors and stock returns: Evidence from China
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 77 , p. 101499 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Matthias Xaver Hanauer , Jochim Lauterbach
The Cross-Section of Emerging Market Stock Returns
55 Pages · Posted: 28 Aug 2018 · Downloads: 876
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Patrick Gagliardini , Elisa Ossola , Olivier Scaillet
A diagnostic criterion for approximate factor structure
Journal of Econometrics , volume 212 , issue 2 , p. 503 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Mehak Younus , Hilal Anwar Butt
Performance of factor models in explaining anomalous return patterns: Evidence from Pakistan
Investment Analysts Journal , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 143 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,904
ABSTRACT VIEWS
32,720
RANK
4,151
63 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies