Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lucky Factors

99 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2014 Last revised: 8 Apr 2021

Campbell R. Harvey

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Yan Liu

Purdue University

Date Written: April 8, 2021

Abstract

Identifying the factors that drive the cross-section of expected returns is challenging for at least three reasons. First, the choice of testing approach (time-series versus cross-sectional) will deliver different sets of factors. Second, varying test portfolio sorts changes the importance of candidate factors. Finally, given the hundreds of factors that have been proposed, test multiplicity must be dealt with. We propose a new method that makes measured progress in addressing these key challenges. We apply our method in a panel regression setting and shed some light on the puzzling empirical result that the market factor drives the bulk of the variance of stock returns, but is often knocked out in cross-sectional tests. In our setup, the market factor is not eliminated. Further, we bypass arbitrary portfolio sorts and instead execute our tests on individual stocks | with no loss in power. Finally, our bootstrap implementation, which allows us to impose the null hypothesis of no cross-sectional explanatory power, naturally controls for the multiple testing problem.

The on-line appendix appears in this version of the paper.

Forthcoming, Journal of Financial Economics

Note: This paper was formerly circulated under the title "How Many Factors?"

Keywords: Factors, Variable selection, Bootstrap, Data mining, Orthogonalization, Multiple testing, Predictive regressions, Fama-MacBeth, GRS, Performance evaluation, Return prediction

JEL Classification: G12, G14, C12, C21, C22, C31, C32

Suggested Citation:

Harvey, Campbell R. and Liu, Yan, Lucky Factors (April 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2528780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2528780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Y Plyakha , R Uppal , G Vilkov
Equal or value weighting? Implications for asset-pricing tests Posted: 2016
D Politis , J Romano
The stationary bootstrap
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 89 , p. 1303 - 1313 Posted: 1994
Crossref
K Pukthuanthong , R Roll , A Subrahmanyam
A protocol for factor identification
Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , p. 1573 - 1607 Posted: 2019
Crossref
J Shanken
On the estimation of beta-pricing model
Review of Financial Studies , volume 5 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8,892
ABSTRACT VIEWS
40,012
RANK
1,571
71 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies