Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Combining Evidence from Sub-Populations into a Composite Conclusion

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 227-245, Fall 1993

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2531757

Posted: 3 Dec 2014

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

S. Aldersley

Independent

Date Written: September 1993

Abstract

In audit testing scenarios, the question arises as to the appropriate way to combine or aggregate the evidence gathered from separate tests of sub-populations into an overall conclusion about the amount of audit risk being borne - that is, the risk of a material amount of misstatement remaining undetected in the overall population at the conclusion of such separate audit tests. The Poisson distribution-based "max rule," a method of combining judgments of audit risk based on tests of sub-populations, is examined. Although the max rule may be justified at the planning stages of the audit, it is shown that if it is used at the evaluation stage of the audit, it can lead to underestimation of the upper error limit and overall risk faced upon completing tests of sub-populations. As a result, it should not be used to evaluate results of audit procedures applied to sub-populations to draw overall audit conclusions.

Keywords: audit testing, sub-populations, audit risk, financial statement analysis

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Zhang, Ping and Aldersley, S., On Combining Evidence from Sub-Populations into a Composite Conclusion (September 1993). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 227-245, Fall 1993, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2531757, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2531757
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies