Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Statistical Software in Data Analysis

International Journal of Applied Research and Studies (iJARS) ISSN: 2278-9480 Volume 3, Issue 8 (August - 2014)

15 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2014

S. Matthew Abatan

Federal University, Oye-Ekiti; Federal University Oye-Ekiti - Department of Demography and Social Stastistics

Michael Olayemi

Kogi State Polytechnic - Department of Mathematics and Statistics

Date Written: August 1, 2014

Abstract

As quantitative research grows, application of statistical software (SS) becomes a more crucial part of data analysis. Researchers are experiencing a transition from manual analysis with paper to more efficient digital/electronic analysis with statistical software (SS). It identifies the prerequisites of producing world-class studies by using modern SS solutions. SS has contributed immensely in improving not only in demography studies and social investigation but also among other professionals’ researches in Nigeria and the world at large. A cross-sectional survey of 5 lecturers each were selected from 8 departments in the two faculties in Oye-Ekiti campus and were given questionnaire base on their availability and interest. A total sample size of forty (40) academic staff were selected but thirty (30) eventually responded which comprises fifteen less experienced staff with (0-5yrs) and 15 more experienced staff with (6yrs and above) as well as 10 non-response. The small sample size was due to few lecturers in some departments as at the time of this study. Data were analyzed using SPSS package.

A univariate and bivariate analysis was done and findings of the study revealed that impact of statistical software on research results give Mean (M)=4.80 and Standard Deviation (SD)=0.41, on a (1-5) Likert scales with 80% Strongly Agree that SS has positive impact on their research result. Respondents category and running analysis without SS shows mean (M)=2.27 and Standard deviation (SD)=1.37 on a (1-5) Likert scales with 66% admitting that they cannot run analysis without SS. Some SS are suitable for some kind of analysis than others for instance, while SPSS,STATA, SAS MATLAB and R are 100% suitable for ANOVA, Eview, SAS STATA, R and MatLab are 100% suitable for time series analysis. Furthermore, STATA, SAS, Eview, MATLAB and R are 100% suitable for different kind of regression analysis among others. In FUOYE, while SPSS has 92.9% knowledge and usage, others have usage and knowledge as follows; STATA (57.1%), SAS (15.4%), MiniTab (0%), Ms-Excel (76.9%), MATLAB (28.6%), R (0%), Epi-info (16.7%), and PSPP (8.3%). The paper concludes by requesting academic staff to improve in their SS workshops training and further recommends integration of SS application in academic curriculum just like other compulsory courses.

More so choosing statistical packages to learn should be based on the suitability of the software for all possible analysis you wish to be analyzing.

Keywords: Statistical Software Usage, Academic research and Data Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Abatan, S. Matthew and Abatan, S. Matthew and Olayemi, Michael, The Role of Statistical Software in Data Analysis (August 1, 2014). International Journal of Applied Research and Studies (iJARS) ISSN: 2278-9480 Volume 3, Issue 8 (August - 2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
O Adetola
Learning Statistical Package Workbook Posted: 2013
A F Akindutire
Usage of Mobile Phone: Deception, Deviance and Fraud (A case study of Ambrose-Alli) Posted: 2013
Chris Mcgann
Role of Statistical Software Posted: 2014-04
S Daniel
The Most Popular Statistical Software. accessed on 3rd April, 2014: eHow Contribution Eview Users Manual (2009) History and usage of Eview visited on 28 th Posted: 2009-04
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,852
ABSTRACT VIEWS
22,290
RANK
6,478
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Data Collection & Data Estimation Methodology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies