Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reaction to Quantitative and Qualitative Order Backlog Disclosures

53 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2014 Last revised: 18 Apr 2018

Ronen Feldman

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Suresh Govindaraj

Rutgers University - Rutgers Business School - Newark and New Brunswick

Joshua Livnat

New York University; Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

Kate Suslava

Bucknell University Freeman College of Management

Date Written: December 6, 2014

Abstract

Information on Order Backlogs (OB) have long been sought after by analysts and practitioners as indicators of future sales, and in turn, of future earnings and stock returns. OB disclosures, though mandatory for annual reports, are voluntary for quarterly reports, and sometimes presented in preliminary earnings releases as a textual narration. We show that OB disclosures provide sales forecasting benefits to the users of financial statements and generate significant investor responses. Contributing to the existing literature, we study both annual and quarterly OB disclosures, and further distinguish between quantitative and qualitative OB disclosures in the quarterly filings. We investigate why managers make certain choices regarding the frequency and the format of OB disclosures. We show that both quantitative information on increases in OB and positive qualitative indications by management about the direction of OB, are associated with higher (incremental) immediate and drift returns.

Keywords: earnings surprise, future sales growth, order backlog, qualitative disclosures, stock returns

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Feldman, Ronen and Govindaraj, Suresh and Livnat, Joshua and Suslava, Kate, Market Reaction to Quantitative and Qualitative Order Backlog Disclosures (December 6, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2534810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Tim Loughran , Bill McDonald
Textual Analysis in Accounting and Finance: A Survey
56 Pages · Posted: 3 Oct 2014 · Last revised: 21 May 2016 · Downloads: 12,287
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kimball Chapman , Zachary Kaplan , Chase Potter
Strategic Disclosure of Supplemental Information: Evidence from Book-to-Bill Ratios
Posted: 17 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 26 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,424
RANK
262,392
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies