Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Manufactured Diversification Discount

59 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2014 Last revised: 19 Jan 2017

John Hund

University of Georgia

Donald Monk

Fisher School of Accounting

Sheri Tice

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Date Written: December 16, 2016

Abstract

The commonly used measure to assess whether corporate diversification adds or subtracts value manufactures a diversification discount by focusing solely on industry matching with the unintended consequence of matching larger and older firms to smaller and younger firms. Since size and age have been shown to be negatively associated with valuation multiples and diversified firms tend to be larger and older, this mis-matching results in a "diversification discount." We demonstrate a myriad of problems with the existing measure and create a new measure that matches on value-relevant characteristics. Using this measure, we conclude that there is no discount to diversification.

Keywords: Organizational Structure, Corporate Diversification, Firm Valuation, Coarsened Exact Matching

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Hund, John and Monk, Donald and Tice, Sheri, A Manufactured Diversification Discount (December 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2535017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2535017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Stefano M Iacus , Gary King , Giuseppe Porro
Causal Inference without Balance Checking: Coarsened Exact Matching
Political Analysis , volume 20 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Stefano M Iacus , Gary King , Giuseppe Porro
Multivariate Matching Methods That Are Monotonic Imbalance Bounding
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 106 , p. 345 - 361 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Boyan Jovanovic , L Peter , Rousseau
Why Wait? A Century of Life before IPO
American Economic Review , volume 91 , p. 336 - 341 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Naveen Khanna , Sheri Tice
The Bright Side of Internal Capital Markets
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 1489 - 1528 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,422
RANK
215,250
7 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies