Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Big-4 Premium in the German Audit Market for Listed and Private Firms

34 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2014

Philipp Joha

Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg

Johannes Günther

Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg

Date Written: November 30, 2014

Abstract

The majority of audit fee research has identified that BIG-N audit firms charge higher fees than other auditors. To detect the reasons for such a fee premium in a concentrated audit market it is necessary to compare audit pricing in the concentrated market to pricing behavior in a competitive market. We follow this approach proposed by SIMUNIC (1980) but unlike most researchers we separate the German audit market in a segment for listed and non-listed auditees. This allows us to capture the difference in the amplitude of an audit mandate in a more universal way as well as to separate the audit market in a competitive and a concentrated segment more accurately. Thereby, to our knowledge we are also the first to examine audit fees of non-listed companies in Germany.

We observe a fee premium for BIG-4 auditors in both market segments when applying an aggregated BIG-4 variable as well as looking at these audit firms separately. This suggests product differentiation as the root for higher prices and competitive audit pricing refuting regulators' concerns of monopolistic pricing behavior due to a high market concentration. This is supported by a Fee Cutting effect. Furthermore, our results demonstrate that similar to listed firms audit pricing for private firms is influenced by client's size, complexity and risk factors.

Keywords: Audit Market, Audit Quality, Audit Pricing, BIG-4 Premium

JEL Classification: M40; C3

Suggested Citation:

Joha, Philipp and Günther, Johannes, The Big-4 Premium in the German Audit Market for Listed and Private Firms (November 30, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2540109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2540109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
T Anderson , D Zéghal
The Pricing of Audit Services: Further Evidence from the Canadian Market
Accounting and Business Research , volume 24 , issue 95 , p. 195 - 207 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J S Ang , R A Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Bigus , R Zimmermann
Quasirentenmodell und Honorare fuer Abschlusspruefungen in Deutschland -eine empirische Analyse
Zeitschrift fuer Betriebswirtschaft , volume 79 , issue 11 , p. 1283 - 1308 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D W Blackwell , N R Thomas , D B Winters
The Value of Auditor Assurance: Evidence from Loan Pricing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 70 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Nicole V.S. Ratzinger‐Sakel , Martin W. Schönberger
The Impact of Auditor Brand Name on Auditor Remuneration in a Large Private Client Segment
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 22, Issue 3, pp. 536-553, 2018 · 18 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2018 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,803
RANK
371,780
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies