Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Split-Questionnaire Survey Design: An Empirical Analysis

Pakistan Journal of Statistics (2015). Vol. 31(2), 211-218

8 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2015 Last revised: 26 Apr 2015

Alia Ahmed

National College of Business Administration and Economics (NCBA&E); ISOSS-Islamic Countries Society of Statistical Sciences

Suleman Lodhi

National College of Business Administration and Economics (NCBA&E)

Munir Ahmad

National College of Business Administration and Economics

Date Written: March 25, 2015

Abstract

Lengthy questionnaires have always been a problem for respondents, increasing the chances of delayed, hasty or slapdash responses. Splitting a long questionnaire into parts reduces the burden on the respondents as well as increases the chances of getting prompt and responsible responses.

In this study, we have attempted to compare a new survey technique i.e. the Split-Questionnaire Survey Design, and its comparison has been done with the existing classical Full Questionnaire Survey Design, using basic statistics, confidence intervals and dispersion measures. The Split Questionnaire Design, though developed recently, has not yet been used in surveys, and the present study employed both these designs to conduct a survey for measuring public’s perception of corruption in the public sector. The Split Questionnaire Design, has emerged as efficient as the classical design. However, there are still many unexplored aspects of Split-Questionnaire Survey Design.

Keywords: Split-Questionnaire Survey Design, Full Questionnaire Survey Design

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Alia and Lodhi, Suleman and Ahmad, Munir, Using Split-Questionnaire Survey Design: An Empirical Analysis (March 25, 2015). Pakistan Journal of Statistics (2015). Vol. 31(2), 211-218, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2544442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
L M Adams , G Darwin
Solving the Quandary between Response Rate in Educational Research , volume 17 , p. 231 - 240 Posted: 1982
Crossref
F Adıgüzel , M Wedel
Split questionnaire design for massive surveys
Journal of Marketing Research , p. 608 - 617 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D R Berdie
Reassessing the Value of High Response Rates to Mail Surveys
Marketing Research , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 52 - 64 Posted: 1989
N Bradburn
Respondent burden
Research Proceedings Series. Second Biennial Conference National Center for Health Services Research Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,629
RANK
328,615
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies