Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing for Benford's Law: A Monte Carlo Comparison of Methods

21 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2015

Dieter Joenssen

Ilmenau University of Technology - Department of Quantitative Methods for Economics

Date Written: November 25, 2014

Abstract

Testing data for conformity to Benford's law is used not only by auditors exploiting a numerical phenomenon to detect fraudulently reported data. Operationally goodness-of-fit tests are used to conclude if data that should, does indeed comply with Benford's law. Naturally, not all statistical tests share the same sensitivity for detecting departures from the null-hypothesis, and thus the test choice is of central importance.

This study compares seven tests for Benford's law common in literature. These tests are presented together with the critical values required for statistical hypothesis testing. The procedures are compared in terms of their power, at a significance level of 5%, versus 16 alternative distributions covering a wide range of possible deviations. Even though no test consistently dominated all other tests, results show, amongst other findings, that the current method of choice, the Chi^2-test, is consistently outperformed by Watson's-U^2 statistic.

Keywords: Benford's law, Power comparison, Goodness-of-fit tests, Fraud detection, Data manipulation

JEL Classification: M41, C12, C15

Suggested Citation:

Joenssen, Dieter, Testing for Benford's Law: A Monte Carlo Comparison of Methods (November 25, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2545243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2545243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
S Newcomb
Note on the frequency of use of the different digits in natural numbers
American Journal of Mathematics , volume 4 , p. 39 - 40 Posted: 1881
Crossref
F Benford
The law of anomalous numbers
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society , volume 78 , p. 551 - 572 Posted: 1938
L M Leemis , B W Schmeiser , D L Evans
Survival distributions satisfying Benford's law , volume 54 , p. 236 - 241 Posted: 2000
Crossref
T P Hill
A statistical derivation of the significant digit law
Statistical Science , volume 10 , p. 354 - 363 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,931
RANK
195,765
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies