Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entropy-Balanced Accruals

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2015 Last revised: 27 Oct 2019

Jeff L. McMullin

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: October 25, 2019

Abstract

This study assesses whether the accrual-generating process is adequately described by a linear model with respect to a range of underlying determinants examined by prior literature. We document substantial departures from linearity across the distributions of accrual determinants, including measures of size, performance, and growth. To incorporate non-linear relations, we employ a recently developed multivariate matching approach (entropy balancing) to adjust for determinants in place of relying on a linear model. Entropy balancing identifies weights for the control sample to equalize the distribution of determinants across treatment and control samples. In simulations drawing random samples from deciles where a linear model displays poor fit, we find that entropy balancing significantly improves accrual model specification by reducing coefficient bias relative to linear and propensity-score matched models. Consistent with entropy balancing retaining sufficient power, we find that its estimates detect seeded accrual manipulations and explain variation in accruals around equity issuances.

Keywords: discretionary accruals; entropy balancing; propensity score matching; covariate balance; initial public offerings; seasoned equity offerings

JEL Classification: M04

Suggested Citation:

McMullin, Jeff L. and Schonberger, Bryce, Entropy-Balanced Accruals (October 25, 2019). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2556389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2556389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Alberto Abadie , Alexis Diamond , Jens Hainmueller
Synthetic Control Methods for Comparative Case Studies: Estimating the Effect of California's Tobacco Control Program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Alberto Abadie , Javier Gardeazabal
The Economic Costs of Conflict: A Case Study of the Basque Country
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Joseph Aharony , Chan-Jane Lin , Martin P Loeb
Initial Public Offerings, Accounting Choices, and Earnings Management*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 81 Posted: 1993
Crossref
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,084
RANK
32,167
230 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies