Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Plain English Measure of Financial Reporting Readability

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 15-33

Posted: 6 Feb 2015 Last revised: 30 Jul 2016

Samuel B. Bonsall

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Andrew J. Leone

Northwestern University

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Kristina M. Rennekamp

SC Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 31, 2016

Abstract

Over the past decade, a burgeoning literature has emerged using textual analysis to examine the impact of financial reporting readability on capital markets. Despite the rapid growth of this literature, clear guidance on measuring readability in financial texts is rather limited. In this study, we introduce a new measure of readability, the Bog Index, which is designed to capture the plain English attributes of disclosure (e.g., active voice, fewer hidden verbs). We then validate this new measure based on a combination of regulatory guidance, experiments, and archival tests using a regulatory intervention related to the readability of prospectus filings. After validating this measure, we next examine the extent to which different readability measures are associated with future stock market volatility and equity analysts’ earnings forecast properties. We find that the Bog Index has nearly a twenty-five percent greater association with future stock return volatility than any other measure of readability. In contrast, only quantity-based measures of disclosure (e.g., total words, file size) are associated with analyst forecast accuracy. Combined, this evidence suggests that financial statement users may be affected by different attributes of readability. Finally, we use both archival and experimental evidence to demonstrate the importance of understanding the underlying drivers of quantity-based measures of readability. In particular, we caution researchers that a vast amount of the variation in the file size measure over time is driven by the inclusion of content unrelated to the underlying text in the 10-K (e.g., HTML, XML, PDFs).

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure; Plain English Reporting; Textual Analysis; Regulation

JEL Classification: G38; M41; L51

Suggested Citation:

Bonsall, Samuel B. and Leone, Andrew J. and Miller, Brian P. and Rennekamp, Kristina M., A Plain English Measure of Financial Reporting Readability (May 31, 2016). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 15-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2560644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2560644
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,167
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies