Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Unstructured and Qualitative Disclosures to Explain Accruals

60 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2015 Last revised: 22 Jul 2015

Richard M. Frankel

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin Business School

Jared N. Jennings

Washington University in St. Louis

Joshua A. Lee

Brigham Young University

Date Written: May 15, 2015

Abstract

We use MD&A disclosures to predict current-year firm-level accruals using support-vector regressions. We call these predictions big-data accruals. Our aim is to measure the explanatory power of MD&A disclosures for liquidity and critical accounting choices. We find that big-data accruals explain a statistically and economically significant portion of firm-level accruals and identify more persistent accruals. They have less incremental explanatory power when 10-K readability is low and more when earnings are more difficult to predict using fundamentals. In addition, we find that big data accruals are incrementally useful in predicting next period’s cash flows. We apply our technique to conference calls and find that they have similar explanatory power for accruals. Our technique can be applied to a variety of unstructured and qualitative disclosures to assess their narrative content.

Keywords: Textual Analysis; Big Data; Accruals

JEL Classification: M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Frankel, Richard M. and Jennings, Jared N. and Lee, Joshua A., Using Unstructured and Qualitative Disclosures to Explain Accruals (May 15, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2563940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2563940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Ming-Feng Tsai , Chuan-Ju Wang
On the risk prediction and analysis of soft information in finance reports
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 257 , issue 1 , p. 243 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Qi Chen , Carlos Corona , Yun Zhang
The Usefulness and Endogenous Supply of Disclosure Accessibility
49 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 28 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 355
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mahmoud El-Haj , Paul Rayson , Martin Walker , Steven Young , Vasiliki Simaki
In Search of Meaning: Lessons, Resources and Next Steps for Computational Analysis of Financial Discourse
Forthcoming in Journal of Business Finance and Accounting · 94 Pages · Posted: 24 Feb 2019 · Last revised: 20 Mar 2019 · Downloads: 286
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elizabeth Blankespoor , Ed deHaan , Ivan Marinovic
Disclosure Processing Costs, Investors’ Information Choice, and Equity Market Outcomes: A Review
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 124 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 15 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 2,717
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,520
RANK
106,324
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies