Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Logarithmic Transformations in Cross Section Regression Models of the Long Run Relation between Market and Accounting Values

40 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2015

Roger J. Willett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: February 13, 2015

Abstract

Empirical evidence, mostly cross-sectional, is provided in this paper supporting the theory that the market accounting-relation is best understood as a multiplicative relation, when the modeled variables are positive. The theory is shown to work well with large sets of cross section and pooled data as well as in time series analysis with more limited numbers of observations. The distributions of market value and the main accounting aggregates, net book value of firm assets, earnings and dividends are all better approximated by a log-normal form, when the data are positive. The error term in regressions of market value on these variables is also more closely approximated by a log-normal distribution. Together these findings are consistent with the long-run market-accounting relation and the cross-section of market value being better explained by a geometric mean of the fundamental accounting variables, rather than an arithmetic mean of those variables, which is invariably used in the accounting literature. Implications for the interpretation of coefficients in cross-section regressions of market value and for the theories of market valuation are discussed.

Keywords: Capital market research; Multiplicative models; Cross section models; Logarithmic transformations; Fundamental analysis; Geometric mean models; Market value theory; Testing Olhson-Penman theory

JEL Classification: C13, C21, C51, C52, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Willett, Roger J., Logarithmic Transformations in Cross Section Regression Models of the Long Run Relation between Market and Accounting Values (February 13, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2564374 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2564374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,438
RANK
296,056
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies