Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Methods for Estimating the Hurst Exponent of Stock Returns: A Note

9 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2015 Last revised: 16 Apr 2015

Jamal Munshi

Sonoma State University

Date Written: February 14, 2015

Abstract

This note is a further commentary on a previous paper on the chaos theory of stock returns that derives from the alleged detection of persistence in time series data indicated by values of the Hurst exponent H that differs from the neutral value of H=0.5 implied by the efficient market hypothesis (EMH) (Munshi, 2014). A comparison of four different methods for estimating H is presented. Linear regression of log transformed values (OLS) is compared against a numerical approach using the generalized reduced gradient (GRG) method. These methods are applied to two different empirical models for the estimation of H. We find that the major source of error in the empirical estimation of H is the insertion of the extraneous constant C into the empirical model.

Keywords: finance, financial analysis, efficient market hypothesis, financial markets, chaos theory, stock markets, rescaled range analysis, Hurst constant, fractal theory of stock markets, stock price behavior, long term memory of stock returns, persistence in stock returns, OLS regression, least squares, li

Suggested Citation:

Munshi, Jamal, Methods for Estimating the Hurst Exponent of Stock Returns: A Note (February 14, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2564916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2564916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
N Draper
Applied regression analysis Posted: 1998
Crossref
W Greene
Nonlinear regression models. Retrieved Posted: 2010
H Hurst
Long term storage capacity of reservoirs. Transactions of the Posted: 1951
V Johnson
Revised standards for statistical evidence
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,864
RANK
36,115
8 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies