Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Classification of Nonparametric Regression Functions in Heterogeneous Panels

38 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2015

Michael Vogt

University of Cambridge

Oliver B. Linton

University of Cambridge

Date Written: February 19, 2015

Abstract

We investigate a nonparametric panel model with heterogeneous regression functions. In a variety of applications, it is natural to impose a group structure on the regression curves. Specifically, we may suppose that the observed individuals can be grouped into a number of classes whose members all share the same regression function. We develop a statistical procedure to estimate the unknown group structure from the observed data. Moreover, we derive the asymptotic properties of the procedure and investigate its finite sample performance by means of a simulation study and a real-data example.

Keywords: Panel data; nonparametric regression; classification of regression curves

JEL Classification: C10, C14, C33

Suggested Citation:

Vogt, Michael and Linton, Oliver B., Classification of Nonparametric Regression Functions in Heterogeneous Panels (February 19, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2567312 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2567312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
C Abraham , P A Cornillon , E Matzner-Løber , N Molinari
Unsupervised curve clustering using B-splines
Scandinavian Journal of Statistics , volume 30 , p. 581 - 595 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Bosq
Nonparametric statistics for stochastic processes Posted: 1998
R C Bradley
Basic properties of strong mixing conditions. a survey and some open questions
Probability Surveys , volume 2 , p. 107 - 144 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J.-M Chiou , P.-L Li
Functional clustering and identifying substructures of longitudinal data
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society B , volume 69 , p. 679 - 699 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Andreas Dzemski , Ryo Okui
Confidence Set for Group Membership
122 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 30 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 95
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,029
RANK
382,931
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies