Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Simulation Methods in Accounting Research

Journal of Management Control, Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Mar 2015

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Date Written: February 14, 2015

Abstract

The use of simulation methods is not very common in accounting research, even though several authors have pointed to the advantages these methods offer in addressing accounting research questions. In this position paper, I discuss the difficulties encountered when applying simulation methods in accounting research. These roadblocks are the problem of seeing the forest for the trees, the difficulty in designing the model and assessing which variables to include, issues with calibrating simulation models with relevant parameter values to guarantee external validity, and the unfamiliarity of the accounting readership with simulation methods. For each of these obstacles, I give some practical advice on how to overcome them from my experience as an author as well as a reviewer.

Keywords: simulation, accounting, management accounting

JEL Classification: M41, C63

Suggested Citation:

Labro, Eva, Using Simulation Methods in Accounting Research (February 14, 2015). Journal of Management Control, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2571485
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,553
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies