Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Doing Good Field Research: Assessing the Quality of Audit Field Research

68 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2015

Bertrand Malsch

Queen's University - School of Business

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

Field research is increasingly being employed by audit researchers around the world including in North America. However, given that many doctoral programs, especially in North America, devote little or no time to this method, understanding what constitutes good auditing field research is problematic for many editors and reviewers. Hence, the goal of this article is simple: to provide editors and reviewers with a set of guidelines that can be employed to assess the quality of auditing field research as field research, not as an experiment or an archival study. In addition, this article might be helpful to those audit researchers who are teaching themselves field research methods to calibrate their understanding of rigorous and trustworthy field based research methods as well as for doctoral students and accounting departments interested in expanding their scope of course offerings. To achieve this goal we pose and answer ten questions about field research quality illustrating our responses with best practices observed in currently published or forthcoming papers. We also identify various methodological resources that will assist editors, reviewers and authors in developing a greater appreciation for and an ability to evaluate auditing research based on this method.

Keywords: Accounting Research, Auditing research, Corporate Governance, Field research, Field study, Case study, Interpretivism, Positivism, Qualitative methods and methodology

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Malsch, Bertrand and Salterio, Steven E., Doing Good Field Research: Assessing the Quality of Audit Field Research (March 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2574420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2574420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
139 References
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and Organizations: Realizing the Richness of Field Research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
M Alvesson , D Kärreman
Constructing mystery: Empirical matters in theory development
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , p. 1265 - 1281 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Alvesson , J Sandberg
Generating research questions through problematization
Academy of Management Review , volume 36 , p. 247 - 271 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
43 Citations
ROBERT BLOOMFIELD , MARK W. NELSON , EUGENE SOLTES
Gathering Data for Archival, Field, Survey, and Experimental Accounting Research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 341 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Robert J. Bloomfield , Mark W. Nelson , Eugene F. Soltes
Gathering Data for Archival, Field, Survey and Experimental Accounting Research
73 Pages · Posted: 30 Aug 2015 · Last revised: 19 Dec 2015 · Downloads: 1,579
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Emily Elaine Griffith
Auditors, Specialists, and Professional Jurisdiction in Audits of Fair Values
70 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2014 · Last revised: 24 Jan 2017 · Downloads: 956
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Steven M. Glover , Mark H. Taylor , Yi-Jing Wu
Mind the Gap: Why do Experts Have Differences of Opinion Regarding the Sufficiency of Audit Evidence Supporting Complex Fair Value Measurements?
59 Pages · Posted: 4 Oct 2014 · Last revised: 4 Mar 2018 · Downloads: 914
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,019
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,369
RANK
51,016
43 Citations
139 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies