Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Efficiency and Accounting Research: A Discussion of 'Capital Market Research in Accounting' by S.P. Kothari

31 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2001

Charles M.C. Lee

Foster School of Business, University of Washington; Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2, 2001

Abstract

Much of capital market research in accounting over the past 20 years has assumed that the price adjustment process to information is instantaneous and/or trivial. This basic assumption has had an enormous influence on the way we select research topics, design empirical tests, and interpret research findings. In this discussion, I argue that price discovery is a complex process, deserving of more attention. I highlight significant problems associated with a naive view of market efficiency, and advocate a more general model involving noise traders. Finally, I discuss the implications of recent evidence against market efficiency for future capital market research in accounting.

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Charles M.C., Market Efficiency and Accounting Research: A Discussion of 'Capital Market Research in Accounting' by S.P. Kothari (January 2, 2001). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=258495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.258495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Rather than remaining agnostic about the role of market prices, I advocate a more proactive approach. Rather than assuming market efficiency, we should study how, when, and why price becomes efficient (and why at other times it fails to do so)
Nicholas Barberis , Andrei Shleifer , Robert Vishny
A model of investor sentiment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 49 , p. 307 - 343 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Nicholas Barberis , Ming Huang , Tano Santos
Prospect theory and asset prices
Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 2001
Crossref
Victor L Bernard
The Feltham-Ohlson framework: implications for empiricists
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 11 , p. 733 - 747 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,889
RANK
5,147
22 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

A Model of Investor Sentiment

By Nicholas Barberis, Andrei Shleifer, ...

A Unified Theory of Underreaction, Momentum Trading and Overreaction in Asset Markets

By Harrison G. Hong and Jeremy C. Stein

Momentum Strategies

By Louis K.c. Chan, Narasimhan Jegadeesh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies