Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Budgeting of Interdependent Projects with Fuzziness and Randomness

Information systems architecture and technology, Wrocław, Oficyna Wydawnicza Politechniki Wrocławskiej, p. 125-135, 2014

10 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2015

Bogdan Rebiasz

AGH University of Science and Technology

Bartłomiej Gaweł

AGH University of Science and Technology

Iwona Skalna

AGH University of Science and Technology

Date Written: September 22, 2014

Abstract

This paper discusses the problem of capital budgeting in the situation where only some model parameters are well described by their past data and therefore are specified by random variables, whereas the remaining model parameters can hardly be predicted by historical data and therefore they are described by means of fuzzy variables. In order to be able to process such hybrid data, a model of the problem is proposed. The model takes into account both stochastic and economic interdependency between projects. Additionally, a new hybrid method for solving this model is developed. The method combines stochastic simulation with arithmetic on interactive fuzzy numbers and nonlinear programming. As a result a set of Pareto-optimal alternatives is obtained. In order to illustrate the performance of the proposed hybrid method, an example from metallurgical industry is provided.

Keywords: project portfolio selection, fuzzy simulation probability, possibility, dependence

JEL Classification: C15, C61, C44, G11, G31

Suggested Citation:

Rebiasz, Bogdan and Gaweł, Bartłomiej and Skalna, Iwona, Capital Budgeting of Interdependent Projects with Fuzziness and Randomness (September 22, 2014). Information systems architecture and technology, Wrocław, Oficyna Wydawnicza Politechniki Wrocławskiej, p. 125-135, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2595635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2595635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
C Baudrit , Dubois D , Guyonet D
Joint Propagation and Exploitation of Probabilistic and Possibilistic information in Risk Assessment
IEEE Transaction on Fuzzy Systems , volume 14 , p. 593 - 607 Posted: 2006
Crossref
T S Chan F , H Chan M , K H Tang N
Evaluation methodologies for technology selection
Journal of Materials Processing Technology , volume 107 , p. 330 - 337 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Ferson S , R Ginzburg L
Difference method are needed to propagate ignorance and variability
Reliab. Eng. Syst. Safe , volume 54 , issue 96 , p. 71 - 74 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Guyonnet D , B Bourgine , Dubois D , H Fargier , B Cme , P J Chils
Hybrid Approach for addressing uncertainty in risk assessment
Journal of Environmental Engineering , volume 126 , p. 68 - 76 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,296
RANK
724,439
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies