Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying the Delphi Method as a Research Technique in Tax Law and Policy

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 30, 2015

26 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2015

Evgeny Guglyuvatyy

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia

Natalie P. Stoianoff

University of Technology Sydney, Faculty of Law

Date Written: December 4, 2014

Abstract

This article examines the Delphi method as a tool for legal research that can be used to facilitate transparent and informative policy-making in a variety of fields including tax policy. It points to strengths and limitations of the technique based on the findings of the Delphi study conducted to assist in the assessment of fiscal and more general market-based instruments (referred to in this article as carbon pricing instruments) that could be used to tackle climate change in Australia. Whether the Delphi method is utilised in empirical or theoretical legal research or in legal and policy decision-making, this article demonstrates the strength of the technique in providing transparent and justified results, which in turn reinforces the utility of the method as a legal research and/or decision-making tool.

Suggested Citation:

Guglyuvatyy, Evgeny and Stoianoff, Natalie P., Applying the Delphi Method as a Research Technique in Tax Law and Policy (December 4, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 30, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2597916
Purchase - $45
47 References
Munich Personal RePEc Archive Posted: 2007-05-03
Kw Brooks
Delphi technique: expanding applications" (1979) 54 North Central Association Quarterly , p. 377 - 385
Helmer Mccampbell
Crossref
See , Dalkey
The Delphi method: an experimental application of group opinion
Studies in the quality of life Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal Writing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies