Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Content Analysis of Social, Environmental Reporting: What is New?

Guthrie, J. & Abeysekera, I. 2006, Content analysis of social, environmental reporting: What is new? Journal of Human Resource Costing & Accounting, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 114–126.

29 Pages Posted: 4 May 2015

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

Purpose: The aim of this paper is to review the use of content analysis as a research method in understanding SEA and to examine current contemporary foci of this research tradition. Further, several research method issues relating to the use of content analysis are examined.

Methodology: Contemporary focus and research issues are analyzed to provide some future directions for scholars in the field of SEA, by categorizing work in the SEA, social environmental reporting (SER) and intellectual capital reporting (ICR) literature, according to the following: normative literature/theory/commentaries; focus of empirical investigation; quality SER research; combined research methodologies; content analysis method issues.

Findings: Literature indicates that few attempts have been made to combine other research methodologies with content analysis although it has proven fruitful with the limited investigation undertaken to examine aspects of SER. Further extending the performance reporting by combining SER with ICR may provide useful information.

Research Implications: Increasingly, researchers in the field of social and environmental accounting (SEA) need to be able to justify the specific research methods they use when collecting the empirical data that they examine in order to support and test opinions regarding the merit of different approaches to managing, measuring and reporting of SEA.

Keywords: content analysis, social and environmental accounting; social and environmental reporting

Suggested Citation:

Guthrie, James and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, Content Analysis of Social, Environmental Reporting: What is New? (2006). Guthrie, J. & Abeysekera, I. 2006, Content analysis of social, environmental reporting: What is new? Journal of Human Resource Costing & Accounting, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 114–126., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2601851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
I Abeysekera
The project of intellectual capital disclosure: Researching the research
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 77 Posted: 2006
Crossref
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
How is intellectual capital being reporting in a developing nation
Research in Accounting in Emerging Economies , p. 149 - 165 Posted: 2004
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
Human capital reporting in a developing nation: an analysis of practice
British Accounting Review , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 251 - 268 Posted: 2004
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 151 - 163 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
13 Citations
Riccardo Torelli , Federica Balluchi , Katia Furlotti
The Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Engagement: A Content Analysis of Sustainability Reports
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 2019 · 21 Pages · Posted: 9 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 2 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 1,022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Davide Galli , Riccardo Torelli , Veronica Tibiletti
Signaling the Adoption of the Benefit Corporation Model: A Step towards Transparency
Sustainability (MDPI) 2021 · 16 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hamzeh Al Amosh , Saleh F. A. Khatib
Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure of sustainability performance: The case of Jordan
Al Amosh, H., & Khatib, S. F. (2021). Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure of sustainability performance: The case of Jordan. SN Business & Economics.‏, · 29 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 386
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alexandros Garefalakis , Grigoris Giannarakis , Nikolaos Sariannidis
The Content of Corporate Social Responsibility Information: The Case of Greek Telecommunication Sector
International Business Research · 12 Pages · Posted: 16 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 161
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,946
RANK
248,063
13 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies