Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the Benford Datasets and the Reddy and Sebastin Results to Form an Audit Alert Screening Heuristic: An Appraisal

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 3, July 2014, pp. 56-69

Posted: 9 Jul 2017

Edward J. Lusk

SUNY Plattsburgh

Michael Halperin

University of Pennsylvania - Wharton School

Date Written: May 4, 2015

Abstract

Digital Frequency Testing (DFT) is a simple and potentially effective tool that can be used efficiently in the certification audit as well as in the service of forensic investigations to rationalize the use of extended audit procedures at the substantive phase of the audit. To further the hegemony of DFT, this paper summarizes certain aspects of the excellent treatment of DFT offered by Reddy and Sebastin (2012). In the following, the paper takes up the development of a Benford Screening Window (BSW) that can be employed to create alerts as to when datasets under audit examination do not seem to conform to the DFT profile as corrected from the Benford (1938) paper. The BSW is tested vis-à-vis the log10expectation function, two accounting industry datasets downloaded from COMPUSTATTM, and the 12 years of in-kind committee contributions dataset developed by Reddy and Sebastin (2012). The paper finds a reasonable fit for these datasets for the BSW and hence suggests an overall calibration cut-off taken from the results obtained by passing the Reddy-Sebastin datasets through the BSW. In this paper, the authors have programmed an ExcelTMVBA driven Decision Support System (DSS) to aid in the creation of these audit alerts which is available for free as a download with no restriction on its use.

Suggested Citation:

Lusk, Edward J. and Halperin, Michael, Using the Benford Datasets and the Reddy and Sebastin Results to Form an Audit Alert Screening Heuristic: An Appraisal (May 4, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 3, July 2014, pp. 56-69, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2602108
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,003
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies