Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review of Recent Research on Improving Earnings Forecasts and Evaluating Accounting-Based Estimates of the Expected Rate of Return on Equity Capital

Abacus, Forthcoming

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2015/43/ACC

40 Pages Posted: 17 May 2015 Last revised: 16 Jun 2015

Peter D. Easton

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Steven J. Monahan

INSEAD; University of Utah

Date Written: March 2015

Abstract

We extend Easton’s (2007) review of the literature on accounting-based estimates of the expected rate of return on equity capital, which we refer to as the ERR. We begin by reiterating the reasons why accounting-based estimates are used. Next, we briefly review the recent literature that focuses on improving forecasts of expected earnings by either: (1) removing predictable errors from analysts’ forecasts of earnings or (2) developing cross-sectional regression-based estimates of earnings using prior-period financial data. In the remainder of our review we discuss a recent debate on methods for evaluating estimates of the ERR. We highlight the key points in the debate so that the reader will find it easier to form an independent view of the relative merits of the proposed methods.

Keywords: forecasting earnings, cost of capital, valuation

Suggested Citation:

Easton, Peter D. and Monahan, Steven J. and Monahan, Steven J., Review of Recent Research on Improving Earnings Forecasts and Evaluating Accounting-Based Estimates of the Expected Rate of Return on Equity Capital (March 2015). Abacus, Forthcoming, INSEAD Working Paper No. 2015/43/ACC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2606693 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2606693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R Banz
The relation between return and the market value of common stocks
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 9 , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 1981
Crossref
M Barth
Relative measurement errors among alternative pension asset and liability measures
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 433 - 463 Posted: 1991
F Black , M Jensen , M Scholes
The Capital Asset Pricing Model: Some empirical tests Posted: 1972
C Botosan , M Plumlee
Assessing alternative proxies for the expected risk premium
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , p. 21 - 53 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
499
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,753
RANK
129,989
4 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies