Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Be or Not to Be in the Sample? On the Consequences of Using Manipulation Checks in Experimental Accounting Research

Posted: 19 May 2015 Last revised: 24 Jun 2015

Peter Kotzian

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf; Technical University of Darmstadt

Thomas Stöber

Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf

Florian Hoos

IMD Lausanne

Barbara E. Weißenberger

Bucerius Law School; Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf

Date Written: May 18, 2015

Abstract

Manipulation checks are used to improve the quality of experimental evidence by making sure that only those subjects who are tested as having successfully received the experimental treatment are included in the analysis. While standard experimental designs do not call for such a check, they are quasi-obligatory in many disciplines and also in accounting research. In our paper, we discuss the consequences of using manipulation checks resulting in the exclusion of subjects. Using an analytical model, we show that using manipulation checks to exclude cases may translate into a bias towards more significant differences between the experimental and control groups, thereby jeopardizing results to be mere artifacts (alpha error). We also provide a simulation indicating that such biases can occur even when only very few subjects have been excluded. We contribute to the literature by providing an in-depth discussion and analysis of the consequences of using manipulation checks for experimental accounting research. Based on our discussion, we develop recommendations as to how manipulation checks can be used to gain further insights into mechanisms that drove the observed results of an experimental study. In particular, we recommend that data obtained from manipulation checks should be used as an explanatory variable, not as a justification to exclude subjects from the final sample.

Keywords: Accounting, Experimental Designs, Manipulation Checks

JEL Classification: M40, C90

Suggested Citation:

Kotzian, Peter and Stöber, Thomas and Hoos, Florian and Weißenberger, Barbara E., To Be or Not to Be in the Sample? On the Consequences of Using Manipulation Checks in Experimental Accounting Research (May 18, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2607425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2607425
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,605
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies