Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introducing Strong Structuration Theory for Case Studies in Organization, Management and Accounting Research

Qualitative Research in Organizations and Management: An International Journal, Vol. 2 Iss: 3, pp. 208-225, 2007

26 Pages Posted: 22 May 2015

Ahmed O. R. Kholeif

Edge Hill Business School

Lisa Jack

University of Essex - Department of Accounting, Finance & Management

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Purpose – The aim of this paper is to present a reinforced version of structuration theory, known as strong structuration theory, set out in Stones as a disciplined approach to qualitative case study research in the organization, management and accounting fields. This framework challenges the belief held by certain critics that structuration theory cannot be used in substantive empirical research but is only a sensitising device or analytical tool.

Design/methodology/approach – A conceptual discussion is the approach of the paper.

Findings – The key concepts of strong structuration theory are outlined and then put in the context first of two attempts to apply the framework to empirical research and second of two recent papers which address theoretically informed qualitative research and the use of structuration theory in IT studies.

Research limitations/implications – There are some limitations of this paper. The framework offered was not used to set the original research questions in the two case studies employed as these cases were conducted before the publication of Stones' book in 2005. Also, as weaknesses in the framework can best be assessed using empirical findings, a full evaluation cannot be carried out until such research is undertaken.

Originality/value – This paper draws on recent research and thinking in sociology that have yet to be brought into case studies in the fields of accounting and management in particular.

Keywords: Case studies, Accounting, Research methods

Suggested Citation:

Kholeif, Ahmed O. R. and Jack, Lisa, Introducing Strong Structuration Theory for Case Studies in Organization, Management and Accounting Research (2007). Qualitative Research in Organizations and Management: An International Journal, Vol. 2 Iss: 3, pp. 208-225, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2609060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Cohen
210) sets out the minimum definition of institutionalised position-practices as being an observable positional identity with associated prerogatives and obligations; clusters of such practices; other interrelated incumbents of position-practices Posted: 1989
T Ahrens , C Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: positioning data to contribute to theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J J Baxter , W F Chua
Alternative management accounting research -whence and whither. Accounting
Organisations and Society , volume 28 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 97 - 126 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P L Berger , T Luckmann
The Social Construction of Reality: a Treatise in the Sociology of Knowledge Posted: 1967
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,194
RANK
231,609
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies