Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Regulatory and Contracting Costs on Banks' Choice of Accounting Method for Other Postretirement Employee Benefits

Posted: 20 Apr 2001

K. Ramesh

Rice University

Lawrence Revsine

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Abstract

This paper examines banks' choice of accounting methods in a new regulatory environment that more closely ties regulatory monitoring to GAAP numbers. The study finds that banks' choice of the implementation method for SFAS 106 is consistent with an attempt to balance the increased regulatory costs with earnings management benefits. Moreover, banks strategically chose the adoption timing of both SFAS 106 and SFAS 109 to further reduce regulatory costs. The implementation method choice is consistent with a portfolio approach where managers simultaneously consider the existing discretionary accrual levels vis-a-vis the financial reporting effects of impending accounting standards.

Keywords: Accounting methods choice, bank regulatory capital, earnings management, FDICIA

JEL Classification: C25, G21, G28, M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Ramesh, K. and Revsine, Lawrence, The Effects of Regulatory and Contracting Costs on Banks' Choice of Accounting Method for Other Postretirement Employee Benefits. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=261151
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,430
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies