Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Structural Equation Modeling in Archival Capital Markets Research: An Empirical Application to Disclosure and Cost of Capital

Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 8, No. 2, Fall 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JFR-2019-0021

Posted: 5 Jun 2015 Last revised: 8 Nov 2023

Lisa A. Hinson

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 10, 2023

Abstract

Structural equation modeling (SEM), an empirical methodology underutilized in archival research, enables researchers to examine paths linking constructs. SEM consists of two components: a measurement model that generates common factors from observed variables and a path model that links the factors. We discuss SEM’s components, estimation, advantages, best practices, and limitations. We illustrate SEM with an application to disclosure research. Unlike some prior research, we find voluntary disclosure quality is negatively associated with cost of capital, both directly and indirectly through information asymmetry, even after controlling for earnings quality’s direct and indirect associations with cost of capital. We believe SEM offers fruitful avenues for future research because it allows flexibility in modeling relations guided by theory, enables tests of underlying theoretical mechanisms, provides tools to address measurement error and missing data, and estimates simultaneous equations. SEM may be useful in settings that currently use path analysis or principal component analysis.

Keywords: Structural Equation Modeling, Voluntary Disclosure, Information Asymmetry, Earnings Quality, Cost of Capital

JEL Classification: M41, C30

Suggested Citation:

Hinson, Lisa A. and Utke, Steven, Structural Equation Modeling in Archival Capital Markets Research: An Empirical Application to Disclosure and Cost of Capital (July 10, 2023). Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 8, No. 2, Fall 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JFR-2019-0021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2614085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2614085
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,657
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies