Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conforming Tax Avoidance and Capital Market Pressure

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2015 Last revised: 22 Feb 2019

Brad A. Badertscher

University of Notre Dame

Sharon P. Katz

INSEAD

Sonja O. Rego

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: December 17, 2018

Abstract

In this study we develop a measure of corporate tax avoidance that reduces both financial and taxable income, which we refer to as “book-tax conforming” tax avoidance. We use simulation analyses, LIFO/FIFO inventory method conversions, and samples of private and public firms, to validate our measure of conforming tax avoidance. We then investigate the prevalence of conforming tax avoidance within a sample of public firms. Results from the validation tests indicate that our measure of conforming tax avoidance successfully captures book-tax conforming transactions and thus, variation in conforming tax avoidance across firms. Consistent with expectations, we also find that the extent to which public firms engage in conforming tax avoidance varies systematically with the capital market pressures to which they are subject. For example, public firms that lack analyst following, do not issue equity securities, report lower sales growth, or smaller discretionary accruals engage in relatively more conforming tax avoidance and less nonconforming tax avoidance. Our study develops a new measure of conforming tax avoidance that should be useful in future research and provides new insights on the extent to which public firms are willing to reduce income tax liabilities at the expense of reporting lower financial income.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Book-tax conformity, Capital market pressure, Private firms

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Badertscher, Brad A. and Katz, Sharon P. and Rego, Sonja O. and Wilson, Ryan J., Conforming Tax Avoidance and Capital Market Pressure (December 17, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2619317 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2619317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H White
Externalities of Public Firms: Evidence from Private Firms' Investment Decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Barth , J A Elliott , M W Finn
Market Rewards Associated with Patterns of Increasing Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 37 , p. 387 - 413 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The Rewards to Meeting or Beating Earnings Expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
T Beasley , M
Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) Models as a Solution to Path Analytic Models with Correlated Errors , volume 34 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,837
RANK
29,186
19 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies