Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Automation Algorithm for Harvesting Capital Market Information from the Web

Managerial Finance, Vol. 35 No. 5, 2009

12 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2015 Last revised: 30 Jun 2015

Pankaj Agrrawal

University of Maine

Date Written: March 21, 2009

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to develop an algorithm to harvest user specified information on finance portals and compile it into machine‐readable datasets for quantitative analysis. The Visual Basic macro language in Microsoft Excel is applied to develop code that is not constrained by the single‐query function of Excel. The core of the algorithm is built around the splitting of the URL connector line and the placement of a continuously updating variable into which are looped as many tickers as there are in the input list. The output is then written to non‐overlapping cells. Numerical information placed on major finance websites can be harvested into structured machine‐readable datasets by applying this algorithm. This has been implemented in the Returnfinder App, which produces Total Return charts that include dividends.The algorithm extends user accessibility to websites that do not provide the facility of simultaneous downloading of information on multiple stock tickers. Furthermore, the procedure automates the downloading of multiple pieces of information (fields) and entire tables per ticker (record).

Keywords: web retrieval, harvesting algorithm program, download stock market data from the web, total return charts, total return dividend charts, capital market information

JEL Classification: G, C, Z

Suggested Citation:

Agrrawal, Pankaj, An Automation Algorithm for Harvesting Capital Market Information from the Web (March 21, 2009). Managerial Finance, Vol. 35 No. 5, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2621156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
P Agrrawal , J M Clark
ETF betas: a study of their estimation sensitivity to varying time intervals
Annual ETF Issue , p. 96 - 103 Posted: 2007
S Benninga
Financial Modeling Posted: 2008
C Corrado , T Miller
The forecast quality of CBOE volatility indexes
Journal of Futures Markets , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 339 - 73 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C J Corrado , T W Miller
Estimating expected excess returns using historical and option-implied volatility
Journal of Financial Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 112 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,688
RANK
467,197
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies