Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the Price-to-Earnings Harmonic Mean to Improve Firm Valuation Estimates

Journal of Financial Education, Volume 36, Fall/Winter 2010

13 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2015

Pankaj Agrrawal

University of Maine

Richard H Borgman

University of Maine

John M. Clark

University of Southern Mississippi - College of Business Administration - Economics, Finance, & International Business

Robert Strong

University of Maine - Department of Public Policy and Health

Date Written: October 21, 2010

Abstract

This paper reviews some well-known options to estimate the portfolio average of the price-earnings (P/E) multiple, emphasizing the logic and calculation of the harmonic mean. The harmonic mean is a useful but oftentimes unfamiliar calculation to many students and professionals. The simple arithmetic mean when applied to non-price normalized ratios such as the P/E is biased upwards and cannot be numerically justified, since it is based on equalized earnings. The paper advocates the use of the classic harmonic mean when the need is for an equal-dollar-weighted average and the weighted-average harmonic mean when the need is for an index style market-weighted average.

Keywords: P/E ratio, P/E multiple, portfolio PE, portfolio P/E, harmonic mean versus arithmetic mean versus geometric mean

JEL Classification: G

Suggested Citation:

Agrrawal, Pankaj and Borgman, Richard H and Clark, John Michael and Strong, Robert, Using the Price-to-Earnings Harmonic Mean to Improve Firm Valuation Estimates (October 21, 2010). Journal of Financial Education, Volume 36, Fall/Winter 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2621087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A W Alford
The effect of the set of comparable firms on the accuracy of the price-earnings valuation method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 108 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M Baker , R S Ruback
Estimating industry multiples
Harvard Business School Working Paper Posted: 1999-06
R Beatty , S M Riffe , R Thompson
The method of comparables and tax court valuations of private firms: An empirical investigation. Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , p. 177 - 99 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Berenson
Mutual fund P/Es can be anyone's guess
TheStreet.com Posted: 1997-09-16
Load more
2 Citations
Jaewon Choi , Hyoung Goo Kang
Refining RBV Valuation: Introducing the Comparable Firm-Finding Algorithm for Enhanced Comparable Company Analysis
29 Pages · Posted: 10 Nov 2021 · Last revised: 3 May 2024 · Downloads: 238
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Cole Campbell , Jacob Robbins
The Value of Private Business in the United States
JPUBE-D-23-01151 · 40 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 73
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,920
RANK
21,613
2 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies