Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussant Comments on 'Does the Identity of Engagement Partner Matter? An Analysis of Audit Partner Reporting Decisions'

21 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2015

William Kinney

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: June 22, 2015

Abstract

The authors of this provocative study apply commonly used audit quality surrogate measures to a large and unique set of financial and other data on statutory audits of small private companies in Sweden. The paper has received unparalleled attention by the financial press and the PCAOB for its presumed support for regulatory intervention in standards for U.S. public company audits. In this Discussant Comment, I review the paper’s content, analyze its predictive validity, and discuss its multiple implications plus, following Conference instructions, I provide constructive suggestions for improvements.

Based on predictive validity analysis, I conclude that engagement partner assignment strategy is an important and acknowledged omitted variable that affects the study’s internal validity via both the independent variable (partner’s prior performance measure) and the dependent variable (borrower’s cost of debt capital). The omission also affects construct validities and, if audit firms are applying a plausible assignment strategy, then interpretation of the study’s main results would be reversed. Finally, the lack of a standards intervention noted by the authors and the extreme size and other differences between audits of Swedish private companies and U.S. public companies impair external validity and generalization to the U.S. intervention.

As to improvements, I suggest that the authors (a) ask Swedish lenders to validate their presumed use of partner performance ratings in determining a borrower’s interest rate, and (b) ask Swedish Big four audit firms to provide a few internal partner performance ratings for comparison with the external performance measures used in the study. This two-pronged, multi-method approach might confirm or deny critical assumptions underlying the present study and may substantively inform standards setters, evidence-based standards, and fellow researchers about the validity of commonly applied surrogates for audit quality and the study’s stated conclusion.

Keywords: Evidence-based standards, audit failures, audit reporting, audit quality.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48.

Suggested Citation:

Kinney, William, Discussant Comments on 'Does the Identity of Engagement Partner Matter? An Analysis of Audit Partner Reporting Decisions' (June 22, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2622616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2622616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Daniel Aobdia , Chan-Jane Lin , Reining Petacchi
Capital Market Consequences of Audit Partner Quality
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Pages: 53 Posted: 7 Sep 2013 Last revised: 12 Feb 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Carcello , C Li
Costs and benefits of requiring an engagement partner signature: recent experience in the United Kingdom
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 5 , p. 1511 - 1546 Posted: 2013
Crossref
W Kinney , R Libby
Discussion Comments on -The Relation Between auditors' Fees for nonAudit Services and Earnings Quality‖
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 107 - 114 Posted: 2002
Crossref
W Knechel , L Niemi , M Zerni
Empirical Evidence on the Implicit Determinants of Compensation in Big 4 Audit Partnerships
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 387 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,875
RANK
422,747
3 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies