Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Confidence Bands for ROC Curves with Serially Dependent Data

Forthcoming in Journal of Business & Economic Statistics

46 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2015

Kajal Lahiri

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Liu Yang

Nanjing University - School of Business; State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany, College of Arts and Sciences, Economics

Date Written: July 8, 2015

Abstract

We propose serial correlation-robust asymptotic confidence bands for the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and its functional, viz. the area under ROC curve (AUC), estimated by quasi-maximum likelihood in the binormal model. Our simulation experiments confirm that this new method performs fairly well in finite samples, and confers an additional measure of robustness to non-normality. The conventional procedure is found to be markedly undersized in terms of yielding empirical coverage probabilities lower than the nominal level, especially when the serial correlation is strong. An example from macroeconomic forecasting demonstrates the importance of accounting for serial correlation when the probability forecasts for real GDP declines are evaluated using ROC.

Keywords: Receiver operating characteristic curve, AUC, Binormal model, Quasi-maximum likelihood, Serial correlation, Survey of Professional Forecasters, Robustness to skewness and excess kurtosis

JEL Classification: C01, C12, C13, C15, C22, C25, C51, C53, E17, E37

Suggested Citation:

Lahiri, Kajal and Yang, Liu and Yang, Liu, Confidence Bands for ROC Curves with Serially Dependent Data (July 8, 2015). Forthcoming in Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2628179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Agresti
An Introduction to Categorical Data Analysis Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Agresti , B A Coull
Approximate is Better than "Exact" for Interval Estimation of Binomial Proportions
The American Statistician , volume 52 , p. 119 - 126 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D W K Andrews
Heteroskedasticity and Autocorrelation Consistent Covariance Matrix Estimation
Econometrica , volume 59 , p. 817 - 858 Posted: 1991
Crossref
D Bamber
The Area Above the Ordinal Dominance Graph and the Area Below the Receiver Operating Characteristic Graph
Journal of Mathematical Psychology , volume 12 , p. 387 - 415 Posted: 1975
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,272
RANK
345,746
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies