Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Practitioner Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality? Evidence from PCAOB and Internal Inspections

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

74 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2015 Last revised: 14 Jan 2019

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Date Written: September 4, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates the degree of concordance between fifteen measures of audit quality used in academia and two measures of audit process quality determined either by audit firms’ internal inspections or by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board inspections of individual engagements. Using two confidential datasets of these assessments of audit process quality, I find that three of the measures of audit quality used by academics have significant associations with both measures of audit process deficiencies used by auditors and regulators: (i) the propensity to restate financial statements, (ii) the propensity to meet or beat the zero earnings threshold, and (iii) audit fees. Seven academic proxies are significantly associated with only one audit process quality measure, and five have insignificant associations with both practitioner assessments. Overall, the significant associations indicate that practitioners and academics share common ground in identifying low-quality audits. These findings can provide guidance for future studies in selecting audit-quality proxies suitable for different research questions.

Keywords: Audit Process Quality, PCAOB Inspections, Measures of Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M42, C80

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel, Do Practitioner Assessments Agree with Academic Proxies for Audit Quality? Evidence from PCAOB and Internal Inspections (September 4, 2018). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2629305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2629305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
M L Defond , C S Lennox , J Zhang
The primacy of fair presentation: Evidence from PCAOB standards, federal legislation, and the courts. Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming Posted: 2018
Crossref
Deloitte
Advancing quality through transparency Deloitte LLP inaugural report. Deloitte Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Doty
Protecting the investing public's interest in informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. Keynote speech delivered at the AICPA Conference on Current SEC and PCAOB developments Posted: 2009
R A Dye
Auditing standards, legal liability, and auditor wealth
Journal of Political Economy , volume 101 , issue 5 , p. 887 - 914 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
149 Citations
Ling Lei Lisic , Linda A. Myers , Robert Pawlewicz , Timothy A. Seidel
Do Accounting Firm Consulting Revenues Affect Audit Quality? Evidence from the Pre‐ and Post‐SOX Eras
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 1028 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Jeffrey L. Hoopes , Kenneth J. Merkley , Joseph Pacelli , Joseph H. Schroeder
Audit personnel salaries and audit quality
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 1096 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Michelle Draeger , Don Herrmann , Bradley P. Lawson
Changes in Audit Quality under Auditing Standard No. 5
Accounting and the Public Interest , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 57 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Michael L. Ettredge , Elizabeth Emeigh Fuerherm , Chan Li , Feng Guo
Client Pressure and Auditor Independence: Evidence from the 'Great Recession' of 2007-2009
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming · 59 Pages · Posted: 13 May 2011 · Last revised: 24 Mar 2017 · Downloads: 714
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,430
RANK
16,050
149 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies