Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Predictive Density Combinations for Large Data Sets in Economics and Finance

Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 15-084/III

73 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2015 Last revised: 6 Mar 2017

Roberto Casarin

University Ca' Foscari of Venice - Department of Economics

Stefano Grassi

University of Kent - Canterbury Campus

Francesco Ravazzolo

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management; BI Norwegian Business School - Department of Data Science and Analytics

H. K. van Dijk

Tinbergen Institute; Econometric Institute

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 10, 2016

Abstract

A Bayesian semi-parametric dynamic model combination is proposed in order to deal with a large set of predictive densities. It extends the mixture of experts and the smoothly mixing regression models by allowing combination weight dependence between models as well as over time. It introduces an information reduction step by using a clustering mechanism that allocates the large set of predictive densities into a smaller number of mutually exclusive subsets. The complexity of the approach is further reduced by making use of the class-preserving property of the logistic-normal distribution that is specified in the compositional dynamic factor model for the weight dynamics with latent factors defined on a reduced dimension simplex. The whole model is represented as a nonlinear state space model that allows groups of predictive models with corresponding combination weights to be updated with parallel clustering and sequential Monte Carlo filters. The approach is applied to predict Standard & Poor’s 500 index using more than 7000 predictive densities based on US individual stocks and finds substantial forecast and economic gains. Similar forecast gains are obtained in point and density forecasting of US real GDP, Inflation, Treasury Bill yield and employment using a large data set.

Keywords: Density Combination, Large Set of Predictive Densities, Compositional Factor Models, Nonlinear State Space, Bayesian Inference, GPU Computing

JEL Classification: C11, C15, C53, E37

Suggested Citation:

Casarin, Roberto and Grassi, Stefano and Ravazzolo, Francesco and van Dijk, Herman K., Dynamic Predictive Density Combinations for Large Data Sets in Economics and Finance (March 10, 2016). Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 15-084/III, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2633388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2633388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
K A Aastveit , F Ravazzolo , H K Van Dijk
Combined density nowcasting in an uncertain economic environment
Journal of Business Economics & Statistics, forthcoming Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Aitchinson
The statistical analysis of compositional data
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series, Series B , volume 44 , p. 139 - 177 Posted: 1982
Crossref
J Aitchinson
The Statistical Analysis of Compositional Data Posted: 1986
J Aitchinson
On criteria for measures of compositional difference
Mathematical Geology , volume 24 , p. 365 - 379 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
8 Citations
Nalan Basturk , Lennart F. Hoogerheide , Herman K. van Dijk
Bayesian Analysis of Boundary and Near-Boundary Evidence in Econometric Models with Reduced Rank
Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper No. 17-058/III · 91 Pages · Posted: 29 Jun 2017 · Downloads: 73
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Leopoldo Catania
Dynamic Adaptive Mixture Models with an Application to Volatility and Risk
32 Pages · Posted: 14 May 2019 · Downloads: 231
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nalan Baştürk , Roberto Casarin , Francesco Ravazzolo , Herman Van Dijk
Computational Complexity and Parallelization in Bayesian Econometric Analysis
Econometrics , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 9 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Roberto Casarin , Stefano Grassi , Francesco Ravazzolo , Herman K. van Dijk
Parallel Sequential Monte Carlo for Efficient Density Combination: The Deco Matlab Toolbox
Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 13-055/III · 28 Pages · Posted: 4 May 2015 · Last revised: 4 May 2015 · Downloads: 536
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,363
RANK
222,795
8 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies