Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fixed-Effects in Empirical Accounting Research

51 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2015 Last revised: 6 Mar 2016

Eli Amir

Tel Aviv University

Jose M. Carabias

London School of Economics

Jonathan Jona

University of New Mexico - Robert O. Anderson Schools of Management

Gilad Livne

Queen Mary University of London - School of Business and Management

Date Written: March 4, 2016

Abstract

The fixed-effects specification is often used in panel datasets as a way of dealing with correlated omitted variables. A review of recent accounting publications reveals that while researchers are generally aware of the need to include fixed-effects in empirical models when using panel datasets (firm-time observations), many chose to replace firm fixed-effects with other form of fixed-effects, mainly industry fixed-effects. We examine the consequences of using different model specifications and show analytically and using simulations that replacing firm fixed or omitting them can lead to biased estimates and wrong inferences. To illustrate the importance of properly including firm fixed-effects, we reexamine commonly used regression models in the accounting literature. We show how inferences change when fixed-effects are properly included. Importantly, we identify circumstances where the fixed-effects specification is likely to fail and offer a full differencing model as an alternative specification.

Keywords: Fixed effects, Estimation methods, Simulations

Suggested Citation:

Amir, Eli and Carabias, Jose M. and Jona, Jonathan and Livne, Gilad, Fixed-Effects in Empirical Accounting Research (March 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2634089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2634089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
P Aghion , Y Algan , P Cahuc , A Shleifer
Regulation and distrust
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , issue 3 , p. 1015 - 1049 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , V Nikolaev
On estimating conditional conservatism
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 755 - 787 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
E F Fama , J D Macbeth
Risk, return, and equilibrium: Empirical tests
Journal of Political Economy , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 607 - 636 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Bjorn N. Jorgensen , Julia Morley
Discussion of “Are Related Party Transactions Red Flags?”
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 929 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Kris Hardies , Sarowar Hossain , Larelle (Ellie) Chapple
Archival research on audit partners: assessing the research field and recommendations for future research
Accounting & Finance Posted: 2020
Crossref
John Castonguay
The Long-Run Implications of Audit Committee Overboarding on Auditor Contracting and Financial Reporting Quality
49 Pages · Posted: 31 Jan 2019 · Downloads: 245
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vanessa Flagmeier , Jens Mueller
Tax Loss Carryforward Disclosure and Uncertainty
arqus Discussion Paper No. 208 · 48 Pages · Posted: 8 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 13 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 437
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,792
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,794
RANK
22,131
7 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies