Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity Net Asset Values and Future Cash Flows

Forthcoming The Accounting Review

46 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2015 Last revised: 4 Apr 2019

Tim Jenkinson

University of Oxford - Said Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Brian Rountree

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Kazbi Soonawalla

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: March 26, 2019

Abstract

This paper analyzes whether fair value estimates of fund net asset values (NAVs) produced by private equity managers are accurate and unbiased predictors of future discounted cash flows (DCF). We exploit the fact that private equity funds have finite lives to compare reported NAVs to DCFs based on realized cash flows for 384 venture capital (VC) funds and 195 buyout funds spanning 1988-2016. Findings reveal that Buyout funds' NAVs display little systematic bias, but VC funds' NAVs are relatively aggressively biased compared to Buyout funds, especially since 2000. Accuracy is worse in the first half of the sample period even though NAV estimates generally are more conservative. Overall, the results reveal significant differences in the association between NAVs and DCFs for Buyout versus VC funds, which is particularly important for private equity fund investors in their consideration of the relevance and reliability of NAV estimates provided by fund managers.

Keywords: Private equity, asset valuation, fair value

JEL Classification: G00, G24, G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Jenkinson, Tim and Landsman, Wayne R. and Rountree, Brian Robert and Soonawalla, Kazbi, Private Equity Net Asset Values and Future Cash Flows (March 26, 2019). Forthcoming The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2636985 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2636985
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
B M Barber , A Yasuda
Interim fund performance and fundraising in private equity
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , p. 172 - 194 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M E Barth
Fair Value Accounting: Evidence from Investment Securities and the Market Valuation of Banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Value-relevance of banks' fair value disclosures under SFAS 107
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , p. 513 - 537 Posted: 1996
M E Barth , G Clinch
International differences in accounting standards: evidence from UK, Australian, and Canadian firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 135 - 170 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,572
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,847
RANK
27,022
9 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies