Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expected Loss and Impact of Risk: Backtesting Parameter-Based Expected Loss in a Basel II Framework

Journal of Risk Model Validation 7(3), 59-84, Fall 2013, Incisive Media

28 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2015 Last revised: 13 Aug 2015

Wolfgang Reitgruber

Erste Group Bank AG

Date Written: September 30, 2013

Abstract

The dependency structure of credit risk parameters is a key driver for capital consumption and receives regulatory and scientific attention. The impact of parameter imperfections on the quality of expected loss (EL) in the sense of a fair, unbiased estimate of risk expenses, however, is barely covered. So far there are no established backtesting procedures for EL that quantify its impact with regards to pricing or risk-adjusted profitability measures. In this paper, a practically oriented, top-down approach to assessing the quality of EL by backtesting with a properly defined risk measure is introduced. In a first step, the concept of risk expenses ("Cost of Risk") has to be extended beyond the classical provisioning view, toward a more adequate capital consumption approach ("Impact of Risk"). On this basis, the difference between parameter-based EL and actually reported Impact of Risk is decomposed into its key components. The proposed method will deepen the understanding of the practical properties of EL, reconcile the EL with a clearly defined and observable risk measure and provide a link between upcoming IFRS 9 accounting standards for loan loss provisioning and the regulatory capital requirements under the internal ratings-based approach (IRBA). The method is robust irrespective of whether parameters are simple, expert-based values or highly predictive and perfectly calibrated IRBA-compliant methods, as long as the parameters and default identification procedures are stable.

The attached pdf is aligned with respect to numbering of formulas, lemmas etc to the published version to simplify referencing. The terminology got slightly updated to provide a more consistent basis for further empirical research: PL/NPL Backtest is replaced by PL/NPL Dashboard.

Note: The final version is available only through the journal, a final draft is uploaded on SSRN.

Keywords: Credit risk, PD, EAD, LGD, Expected Loss, Backtesting, Basel II, IRBA, Impairment, Shortfall, Loan Loss Provisions, Validation, Impact of Risk(c), IoR(c), PL Backtest, NPL Backtest, IFRS 9

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C10, C60

Suggested Citation:

Reitgruber, Wolfgang, Expected Loss and Impact of Risk: Backtesting Parameter-Based Expected Loss in a Basel II Framework (September 30, 2013). Journal of Risk Model Validation 7(3), 59-84, Fall 2013, Incisive Media, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2636871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
E I Altman , B Brady , A Resti , A Sironi
The link between default and recovery rates: theory, empirical evidence, and implications
Journal of Business , volume 78 , issue 6 , p. 2203 - 2228 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E I Altman
Default Recovery Rates and LGD in Credit Risk Modeling and Practice: An Updated Review of the Literature and Empirical Evidence Posted: 2006
Crossref
Basel Committee
Exposure Draft (ED/2013/3) on Financial Instruments: Expected Credit Losses Posted: 2013
T Benzschawel
Credit Risk Modelling. Facts, Theory and Applications. Risk Books, a Division of Incisive Media Investments Ltd Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
734
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,752
RANK
79,630
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Capital Markets - Risk eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies