Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Methodological Thoughts on Expected Loss Estimation for IFRS 9 Impairment: Hidden Reserves, Cyclical Loss Predictions and LGD Backtesting

Published in Credit Technology by Serasa Experian, No 92, p 7-29, on Sept 1, 2015 (in English and Portuguese with local market additions by Carlos Antonio Campos Nogueira).

31 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2015 Last revised: 25 Sep 2015

Wolfgang Reitgruber

Erste Group Bank AG

Date Written: January 4, 2015

Abstract

After the release of the final accounting standards for impairment in July 2014 by the IASB, banks will face the next significant methodological challenge after Basel 2. In this paper, first methodological thoughts are presented, and ways how to approach underlying questions are proposed.

It starts with a detailed discussion of the structural conservatism in the final standard. The exposure value iACV© (idealized Amortized Cost Value), as originally introduced in the Exposure Draft 2009 (ED 2009), will be interpreted as economic value under amortized cost accounting and provides the valuation benchmark under IFRS 9. Consequently, iACV© can be used to quantify conservatism (ie potential hidden reserves) in the actual implementation of the final standard and to separate operational side-effects caused by the local implementation from actual credit risk impacts.

The second part continues with a quantification of expected credit losses based on “Impact of Risk©” instead of traditional cost of risk measures. An objective framework is suggested which allows for improved testing of forward looking credit risk estimates during credit cycles. This framework will prove useful to mitigate overly pro-cyclical provisioning and to reduce earnings volatility.

Finally, an LGD monitoring and backtesting approach, applicable under regulatory requirements and accounting standards as well, is proposed. On basis of the “NPL Dashboard”, part of the “Impact of Risk©” framework, specific key risk indicators are introduced that allow for a detailed assessment of collections performance versus LGD in in NPL portfolio (bucket 3).

Keywords: Credit risk, IFRS 9 Impairment, ED 2009, iACV(c), PD, EAD, LGD, Expected Loss, Backtesting, Basel II, IRBA, Loan Loss Provisions, Impact of Risk(c), IoR(c), PL Dashboard, NPL Dashboard

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C10, C60

Suggested Citation:

Reitgruber, Wolfgang, Methodological Thoughts on Expected Loss Estimation for IFRS 9 Impairment: Hidden Reserves, Cyclical Loss Predictions and LGD Backtesting (January 4, 2015). Published in Credit Technology by Serasa Experian, No 92, p 7-29, on Sept 1, 2015 (in English and Portuguese with local market additions by Carlos Antonio Campos Nogueira)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2641688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
G J Benston , L D Wall
How Should Banks Account for Loan Losses
Economic Review Fourth Quarter , p. 19 - 38 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Arthur M Berd
Lessons from the Financial Crisis 2nd Impression, Insights from the defining economic event of our lifetime. Incisive Media
Risk Books BIS , volume 26 Posted: 2013-06
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European parliament
BIS , volume 26 Posted: 2013-06
Klaus ; Böcker , Neil A Doherty , Richard J Herring
Risk Books Diebold
The Known, The Unknown, The Unknowable in Financial Risk Management Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,050
RANK
37,201
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies