Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying the Fractional Response Model to Survey Research in Accounting

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 16-016

45 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2015 Last revised: 10 Jan 2017

Susanna Gallani

Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit

Ranjani Krishnan

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: January 8, 2017

Abstract

Survey research studies make extensive use of rating scales to measure constructs of interest. The bounded nature of such scales presents econometric estimation challenges. Linear estimation methods (e.g. OLS) often produce predicted values that lie outside the rating scales, and fail to account for nonconstant effects of the predictors. Established nonlinear approaches such as logit and probit transformations attenuate many shortcomings of linear methods. However, these nonlinear approaches are challenged by corner solutions, for which they require ad hoc transformations. Censored and truncated regressions alter the composition of the sample, while Tobit methods rely on distributional assumptions that are frequently not reflected in survey data, especially when observations fall at one extreme of the scale owing to surveyor and respondent characteristics. The fractional response model (FRM) (Papke and Wooldridge 1996, 2008) overcomes many limitations of established linear and non-linear econometric solutions in the study of bounded data. In this study, we first review the econometric characteristics of the FRM and discuss its applicability to survey-based studies in accounting. Second, we present results from Monte Carlo simulations to highlight the advantages of using the FRM relative to conventional models. Finally, we use data from a hospital patient satisfaction survey, compare the estimation results from a traditional OLS method and the FRM, and conclude that the FRM provides an improved methodological approach to the study of bounded dependent variables.

Keywords: Fractional response model, bounded variables, simulation

JEL Classification: C23, C24, C25, C15, I18, M41,

Suggested Citation:

Gallani, Susanna and Krishnan, Ranjani, Applying the Fractional Response Model to Survey Research in Accounting (January 8, 2017). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 16-016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2642854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2642854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
K L Alli , A Q Khan , G G Ramirez
Determinants of corporate dividend policy: A factorial analysis
The Financial Review , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 523 - 547 Posted: 1993
Crossref
E Amir , Y Guan , G Livne
Auditor independence and the cost of capital before and after sarbanes-oxley: The case of newly issued public debt
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 633 - 664 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Arabmazar , P Schmidt
Furhter evidence on the robustness of the tobit estimator to heteroskedasticity
Journal of Econometrics , volume 17 , p. 253 - 258 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Chris S. Armstrong
The Incentives of Equity-Based Compensation and Wealth
Pages: 66 Posted: 18 Jun 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
945
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,339
RANK
56,559
13 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies