Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Adjustments on Earnings Quality: Evidence from China

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 61, No. 2-3, 2016

Posted: 17 Apr 2017

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Xi Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics

Tianyu Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Date Written: August 22, 2015

Abstract

We examine how adjustments to earnings during year-end audits affect measures of earnings quality. There are four key findings. First, audit adjustments cause earnings to become smoother and more persistent. Second, the adjustments result in higher accrual quality. Third, audit adjustments have a larger negative effect on signed accruals than absolute accruals. Fourth, the adjustments do not reduce the discontinuity in the earnings distribution around zero. These findings are of interest to researchers who use earnings properties as proxies for earnings quality and audit quality. However, we caution that our findings for China may not generalize to other countries.

Keywords: auditing; earnings quality

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Wu, Xi and Zhang, Tianyu, The Effect of Audit Adjustments on Earnings Quality: Evidence from China (August 22, 2015). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 61, No. 2-3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2649413
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies