Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry Classification and the Efficiency of Intra-Industry Information Transfers

American Journal of Business, Vol. 29, No. 1, pp. 95-111, 2014

Posted: 9 Nov 2016

Dennis Y. Chung

Simon Fraser University

Karel Hrazdil

Simon Fraser University

Kim Trottier

Simon Fraser University

Date Written: March 19, 2014

Abstract

Motivated by recent studies that demonstrate the superiority of the Global Industry Classification System (GICS) relative to the Standard Industry Classification (SIC) system in capital market research, we revisit the stock market anomaly documented by Thomas and Zhang (TZ) ("Overreaction to intra-industry information transfers?" Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 46, pp. 909–940) and analyze whether the anomaly based on SIC remains evident when intra-industry information transfers are based on the GICS. We first replicate TZ and test whether stock prices of late announcers in response to earnings reported by early announcers in the same SIC industry are significantly related to subsequent price responses of late announcers to their own earnings reports. In the multivariate setting, we then evaluate whether the magnitude and significance of the overreaction anomaly changes under the more comprehensive GICS and across different time periods. We first confirm the over-reaction anomaly based on SIC as documented by TZ. Utilizing a larger sample of firms based on the GICS and extending TZ for a new time period, we then demonstrate that the overreaction anomaly disappears during recent years, a period that is characterized by markedly higher trading activity. The findings provide new insights and contributions to the debate on whether or not market significantly misprices information transfers.

Keywords: GICS, Industry Classification, Information Transfers, Market Efficiency

JEL Classification: G10, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Dennis Y. and Hrazdil, Karel and Trottier, Kim, Industry Classification and the Efficiency of Intra-Industry Information Transfers (March 19, 2014). American Journal of Business, Vol. 29, No. 1, pp. 95-111, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2653400
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,293
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies