Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploiting Qualitative (Narrative) Information from Annual Reports for the Purpose of Accounting Based Firm Valuation – A Markov Chain Approach

36 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2015

David Christen

University of Marburg

Markus Grottke

University of Passau

Date Written: August 29, 2015

Abstract

There can be little doubt that accounting research is increasingly facing a narrative turn. Accounting practice, that is, standard setters as well as financial analysts on the other hand increasingly face a valuation gap springing from the fact that the value drivers of companies are not captured by the financial statements. Providing tailwind to these developments and addressing the needs of accounting practice, we present an extension of the well-known Ohlson valuation model (1995) based on Markov chains that allows for empirically estimating the firm value contribution of arbitrary qualitative information. Moreover, econometric implementation issues are discussed.

Keywords: narrative reporting, other information, accounting based firm valuation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Christen, David and Grottke, Markus, Exploiting Qualitative (Narrative) Information from Annual Reports for the Purpose of Accounting Based Firm Valuation – A Markov Chain Approach (August 29, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2653114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2653114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,894
RANK
368,155
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies