Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tests of Investor Learning Models Using Earnings Innovations and Implied Volatilities

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2015 Last revised: 4 Nov 2015

Thaddeus Neururer

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

George Papadakis

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

Eddie Riedl

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: September 8, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates alternative models of learning to explain changes in uncertainty surrounding earnings innovations. As a proxy for investor uncertainty, we use model-free implied volatilities; as a proxy for earnings innovations, representing signals of firm performance likely to drive investor perceptions of uncertainty, we use quarterly unexpected earnings benchmarked to the consensus forecast. First, we document ― consistent with most Bayesian models of learning and prior research ― that uncertainty declines on average after the release of quarterly earnings announcements. Second, we show that this decline is attenuated by the size of the signal ― that is, by the magnitude of the earnings innovation. This latter result is inconsistent with some models of Bayesian learning, and consistent with more sophisticated models, which incorporate signal magnitude as a factor driving changes in uncertainty. Third and most important, we document that signals deviating sufficiently from expectations ― that is, sufficiently large earnings innovations ― lead to net increases in uncertainty. Critically, this latter result suggests that models allowing for posterior variance to be greater than prior variance even after signal revelation (such as “regime shifts” in Pastor and Veronesi 2009) appear more descriptive of how investors incorporate new information.

Keywords: uncertainty, implied volatilities, earnings innovations, regime shifts, Bayesian learning

JEL Classification: M4, G1

Suggested Citation:

Neururer, Thaddeus and Papadakis, George and Riedl, Edward J., Tests of Investor Learning Models Using Earnings Innovations and Implied Volatilities (September 8, 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2661995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2661995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
W Bailey , G Karolyi , C Salva
The economic consequences of increased disclosure: evidence from international cross-listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
Crossref
O Barron , O Kim , S Lim , D Stevens
Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
M Barth , E So
Non-diversifiable volatility risk and risk premiums at earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 1579 - 1607 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Billings , R Jennings , Lev , B
On guidance and volatility. Working paper Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,467
RANK
464,511
9 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies