Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manager Sentiment and Stock Returns

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2015 Last revised: 13 Sep 2017

Fuwei Jiang

Xiamen University

Joshua A. Lee

Brigham Young University

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Guofu Zhou

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: September 12, 2017

Abstract

This paper constructs a manager sentiment index based on the aggregated textual tone of corporate financial disclosures. We find that manager sentiment is a strong negative predictor of future aggregate stock market returns, with monthly in-sample and out-of-sample R2 of 9.75% and 8.38%, respectively, which is far greater than the predictive power of other previously-studied macroeconomic variables. Its predictive power is economically comparable and is informationally complementary to existing measures of investor sentiment. Higher manager sentiment precedes lower aggregate earnings surprises and greater aggregate investment growth. Moreover, manager sentiment negatively predicts cross-sectional stock returns, particularly for firms that are difficult to value and costly to arbitrage.

Keywords: Manager Sentiment, Textual Tone, Investor Sentiment, Asset Pricing, Return Predictability

JEL Classification: C53, G11, G12, G17

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Fuwei and Lee, Joshua A. and Martin, Xiumin and Zhou, Guofu, Manager Sentiment and Stock Returns (September 12, 2017). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2662288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2662288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Y Amihud , C M Hurvich
Predictive regressions: A reduced-bias estimation method
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 39 , p. 813 - 841 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Y Amihud , C M Hurvich , Y Wang
Multiple-predictor regressions: Hypothesis tests
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 413 - 434 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Ang , G Bekaert
Return predictability: Is it there?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 651 - 707 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,737
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21,316
RANK
6,836
24 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies