Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Earnings, Change in Market Value and Cash Flows

50 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2015 Last revised: 7 Mar 2016

Peter D. Easton

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Peter B. Vassallo

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting

Eric H. Weisbrod

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: February 28, 2016

Abstract

Our analyses are based on the observation that the portion of change in enterprise value captured in earnings differs according to the source of value change. These sources are: (1) cash flows to/from debt holders, equity holders, and/or cash reserves; and, (2) changes in value of assets in place (i.e., enterprise returns). We demonstrate that the effect on earnings of each source of growth captures distinct aspects of accounting conservatism. Although the effect of cash flows on earnings has received little attention in the extant literature, we show that it explains more of earnings than is explained by enterprise returns. We show that the difference in the portion of negative cf. positive enterprise returns captured in current earnings is similar to the portion of negative cf. positive equity returns reported in the extant literature. We also demonstrate an interaction between the sign of returns and cash flows.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, Firm Growth, Free Cash Flows, Earnings Return Relation

Suggested Citation:

Easton, Peter D. and Vassallo, Peter B. and Weisbrod, Eric H., Accounting Earnings, Change in Market Value and Cash Flows (February 28, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2674588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2674588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Sunil Dutta , Panos N. Patatoukas
Identifying Conditional Conservatism in Financial Accounting Data: Theory and Evidence
The Accounting Review, July 2017 · 50 Pages · Posted: 7 Jun 2015 · Last revised: 8 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 774
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sunil Dutta , Panos N. Patatoukas
Identifying Conditional Conservatism in Financial Accounting Data: Theory and Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 191 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,425
RANK
152,310
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies