Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymptotic Variance Approximations for Invariant Estimators in Uncertain Asset-Pricing Models

FRB Atlanta Working Paper No. 2015-9

41 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2015 Last revised: 20 Apr 2022

Nikolay Gospodinov

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta

Raymond Kan

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Cesare Robotti

Imperial College Business School

Date Written: October, 2015

Abstract

This paper derives explicit expressions for the asymptotic variances of the maximum likelihood and continuously updated GMM estimators under potentially misspecified models. The proposed misspecification-robust variance estimators allow the researcher to conduct valid inference on the model parameters even when the model is rejected by the data. Although the results for the maximum likelihood estimator are only applicable to linear asset-pricing models, the asymptotic distribution of the continuously updated GMM estimator is derived for general, possibly nonlinear, models. The large corrections in the asymptotic variances, which arise from explicitly incorporating model misspecification in the analysis, are illustrated using simulations and an empirical application.

Keywords: asset pricing, model misspecification, continuously updated GMM, maximum likelihood, asymptotic approximation, misspecification-robust tests

JEL Classification: C12, C13, G12

Suggested Citation:

Gospodinov, Nikolay and Kan, Raymond and Robotti, Cesare, Asymptotic Variance Approximations for Invariant Estimators in Uncertain Asset-Pricing Models (October, 2015). FRB Atlanta Working Paper No. 2015-9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
B Antoine , H Bonnal , E Renault
On the e¢ cient use of the informational content of estimating equations: Implied probabilities and Euclidean empirical likelihood
Journal of Econometrics , volume 138 , p. 461 - 487 Posted: 2007
F Canova
Statistical inference in calibrated models
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 9 , issue S1 , p. S123 - S144 Posted: 1994
J G Cragg , S G Donald
Inferring the rank of a matrix
Journal of Econometrics , volume 76 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 1997
E F Fama , K R French
Common risk factors in the returns on stocks and bonds
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 33 , p. 3 - 56 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
RANK
826,677
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric Model Construction, Estimation & Selection eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies