Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Landscape of Accrual Accounting

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2015

Robert M. Bushman

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Alina Lerman

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 28, 2015

Abstract

A fundamental property of accrual accounting is to smooth temporary timing fluctuations in operating cash flows, indicating an inherent negative correlation between accruals and cash flows. We show that the overall correlation between accruals and cash flows has dramatically declined in magnitude over the past half century and has largely disappeared in more recent years. The adjusted R2 from regressing (changes in) accruals on (changes in) cash flows drops from about 70% (90%) in the 1960s to near zero (under 20%) in more recent years. In exploring potential reasons for the observed attenuation, we find that increases in non-timing-related accrual recognition, as proxied by one-time and non-operating items and the frequency of loss firm-years, explain the majority of the overall decline. On the other hand, temporal changes in the matching between revenues and expenses, and the growth of intangible-intensive industries play only a limited role in explaining the observed attenuation. Lastly, the relative decline of the timing role of accruals does not appear to be associated with an increase in the asymmetrically timely loss recognition role.

Keywords: accrual accounting, accruals, cash flows, earnings management, accrual quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Bushman, Robert M. and Lerman, Alina and Zhang, Frank, The Changing Landscape of Accrual Accounting (November 28, 2015). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2696498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
18 Citations
Jeffrey Ng , Tharindra Ranasinghe , Guifeng Shi , Holly Yang
Unemployment Insurance Benefits and Income Smoothing
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 38 (1), (2019), 15-30. · 43 Pages · Posted: 2 Aug 2014 · Last revised: 12 May 2019 · Downloads: 334
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John (Xuefeng) Jiang , Isabel Wang , Daniel D. Wangerin
How Does the FASB Make Decisions? A Descriptive Study of Agenda Setting and the Role of Individual Board Members
59 Pages · Posted: 28 Jan 2017 · Last revised: 28 Jul 2017 · Downloads: 305
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ilia D. Dichev , Edward Owens
Accrual Duration
54 Pages · Posted: 29 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 7 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 644
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Suresh Nallareddy , Mani Sethuraman , Mohan Venkatachalam
Changes in Accrual Properties and Operating Environment: Implications for Cash Flow Predictability
Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting and Economics · 56 Pages · Posted: 18 Oct 2017 · Last revised: 18 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 1,194
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
621
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,571
RANK
37,469
18 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies