Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation and Returns on Stock Return Volatility

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2015 Last revised: 3 Feb 2023

Matthew R. Lyle

Goizueta Business School

Date Written: January 31, 2023

Abstract

This paper provides an accounting-based valuation model that predicts that cross-sectional variation in firm-level returns to investments in both stock and stock return volatility are related to cross-sectional variation in firm-level fundamentals. The model predicts that expected stock returns have a positive quadratic relation with stock return variance and a negative quadratic relation with gains to trading in stock return variance. Consistent with these predictions, firms with high model-implied expected stock returns have high future stock return variance, and the relation is roughly quadratic. In contrast, firms with high expected stock returns have low future returns to trading in stock return variance through option contracts because these firms have high option-implied variance relative to future realized variance, i.e., low variance risk premia (VRP). The study provides a framework for using fundamentals for trading in individual stocks and options.

Keywords: Fundamental Analysis, Valuation, Stock Returns, Variance Risk Premiums, Option Returns

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G17

Suggested Citation:

Lyle, Matthew R., Valuation and Returns on Stock Return Volatility (January 31, 2023). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2696183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2696183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
A Ang , J Liu
A general affine earnings valuation model
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 397 - 425 Posted: 2001
G Bakshi , N Kapadia , D Madan
Stock return characteristics, skew laws, and the differential pricing of individual equity options
Review of Financial Studies , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 143 Posted: 2003
G Bakshi , D Madan
Spanning and derivative-security valuation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 238 Posted: 2000
R Bansal , A Yaron
Risks for the long run: A potential resolution of asset pricing puzzles
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1481 - 1509 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,002
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,502
RANK
52,195
2 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies