Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Firm Size: Political Cost or Political Power?

Journal of Accounting Literature (42) 2019

43 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2015 Last revised: 21 Feb 2019

Thomas Belz

University of Mannheim

Dominik von Hagen

University of Mannheim - Department of Business Administration and Taxation

Christian Steffens

University of Mannheim

Date Written: January 30, 2018

Abstract

Using a meta-regression analysis, we quantitatively review the empirical literature on the relation between effective tax rate (ETR) and firm size. Accounting literature offers two competing theories on this relation: The political cost theory, suggesting a positive size-ETR relation, and the political power theory, suggesting a negative size-ETR relation. Using a unique data set of 49 studies that do not show a clear tendency towards either of the two theories, we contribute to the discussion on the size-ETR relation in three ways: First, applying meta-regression analysis on a US meta-data set, we provide evidence supporting the political cost theory. Second, our analysis reveals factors that are possible sources of variation and bias in previous empirical studies; these findings can improve future empirical and analytical models. Third, we extend our analysis to a cross-country meta-data set; this extension enables us to investigate explanations for the two competing theories in more detail. We find that Hofstede’s cultural dimensions theory, a transparency index and a corruption index explain variation in the size-ETR relation. Independent of the two theories, we also find that tax planning aspects potentially affect the size-ETR relation. To our knowledge, these explanations have not yet been investigated in our research context.

Keywords: Effective tax rate, Firm size, Political cost theory, Political power theory, Meta-regression analysis

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Belz, Thomas and von Hagen, Dominik and Steffens, Christian, Taxes and Firm Size: Political Cost or Political Power? (January 30, 2018). Journal of Accounting Literature (42) 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2697468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2697468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
158 References
Buijink
Posted: 1999
Crossref
Mcguire
Posted: 2014
Robinson
Posted: 2010
Crossref
Jennings
Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,447
RANK
33,906
4 Citations
158 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies