Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Discretion, Matching, and the Market

51 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2015 Last revised: 5 Jul 2019

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Thomas Ruchti

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: August 24, 2017

Abstract

We investigate two similar, but distinct benchmarks in financial reporting, that expenses match the revenues they generate, and that revenues and expenses produce earnings that are value relevant. To investigate how well these may be achieved in practice, we study a managerial choice subject to discretion, and important to earnings: depreciation. We estimate firm-specific real and counterfactual depreciation policies using the time series of capital expenditures and reported depreciation expenses. First, we find a matching--market gap, which means that these two important benchmarks cannot be simultaneously achieved by a single earnings measure or accounting standard. Second, we find that current reporting practice is relatively close to the matching benchmark but significantly more aggressive than the market benchmark.

Keywords: managerial discretion, matching, value relevance, financial reporting

JEL Classification: G31, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew and Ruchti, Thomas, Managerial Discretion, Matching, and the Market (August 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2704105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
T , Ross Archibald
The return to straight-line depreciation: An analysis of a change in accounting method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 164 - 180 Posted: 1967
Crossref
T , Ross Archibald
Stock market reaction to the depreciation switch-back
The Accounting Review , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 30 Posted: 1972
Ray Ball
Changes in accounting techniques and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,060
RANK
310,156
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies