Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Organization Performance Using Combined Approach of Balanced Scorecard and Fuzzy Analytic Network Process (Case Study: A Branch of Iran University of Medical Sciences)

International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, 2012

Posted: 17 Dec 2015

Ghamar Haddad

Independent

Date Written: December 16, 2015

Abstract

This article intends to answer the question as how through combination of BSC and Fuzzy Analytic Network Process (ANP) organization’s relative performance can be assessed based on its outlook and strategies, so as both the interaction between criteria and indicators and the balance between them are taken account of. This is an applied and descriptive research conducted through a case study and the under study in one of the medical universities in north of Iran. Through consensus and profiting from a questionnaire the data were gathered. Questionnaire validity and stability was confirmed following approval of the organization’s experts. In this article, through presentation of new Fuzzy model, it has been tried to assess current strategies of the organization and the key factors associated to these strategies. Statistical population in this research includes knowledgeable and experienced managers and experts in the understudy organization.

In this article, through combination of two performance measurement models, (BSC and ANP), while profiting from a Fuzzy Approach the indicators for measurement of organization performance are identified and by combination of the two models, a comprehensive model is proposed for measurement of the organization’s overall performance. In the research findings, the key constituents and the indicators associated to each constituent were pointed out based on which priority and weight of each in regard to organization’s current state of performance can be determined. These weights and indicators can give a useful insight to the university managers regarding the organization performance and importance of its different aspects at organizational level. The score of 61% (out of 100) was found for the organization current performance which can serve as a good base for improvement of the organization future performance.

Keywords: strategy, performance assessment, Balanced Scorecard (BSC), Fuzzy Analytic Network Process (ANP)

Suggested Citation:

Haddad, Ghamar, Assessment of Organization Performance Using Combined Approach of Balanced Scorecard and Fuzzy Analytic Network Process (Case Study: A Branch of Iran University of Medical Sciences) (December 16, 2015). International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704268
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,016
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies