Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why We Do International Accounting Research

Journal of International Accounting Research, July 20, 2015

15 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2016 Last revised: 9 Jul 2016

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: January 23, 2016

Abstract

This essay was a Keynote Address at the Third International Conference of the Journal of International Accounting Research in São Paulo Brazil. It addresses the question of why the volume and quality of international accounting research have grown rapidly in recent years. It begins by asking why we do accounting research and moves on to discuss the reasons for conducting international accounting research. These include: to better understand others (and in the process, to better understand ourselves); to provide more replication options; to exploit differences in national institutional structures when investigating the determinants and effects of institutional variables on accounting; to address some limitations of within-jurisdiction research; and to obtain a wider range of changes to exploit (the paradigm example being the advent of IFRS). I then offer some concluding comments. Despite its somewhat presumptuous title, I do not presume to speak for others; the essay reflects a purely personal viewpoint.

Keywords: International accounting, IFRS, replication, research design

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray, Why We Do International Accounting Research (January 23, 2016). Journal of International Accounting Research, July 20, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2724028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2724028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R G Anderson , W H Greene , B D Mccullough , H D Vinod
The role of data and program code archives in the future of economic research
Journal of Economic Methodology , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 119 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
R Ball , A Robin , G Sadka
Is Financial Reporting Shaped by Equity Markets or by Debt Markets? An International Study of Timeliness and Conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
853
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,975
RANK
65,260
11 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies