Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Component of Discounted Residual Earnings: Some Theoretical and Empirical Implications

Posted: 21 Apr 1998

Richard P. Brief

New York University

Date Written: March 1996

Abstract

The question addressed in this paper is how accounting methods affect discounted residual earnings in all periods prior to the period in which the firm is assumed to liquidate and whenever the time horizon is "short enough" so that terminal values matter. The short-run viewpoint is used to analyze the impact of conservative accounting policies on discounted residual earnings and some recent empirical research involving a comparison between the discounted residual earnings model and the discounted dividends model. A regression of the value of the firm on opening book value and residual earnings is shown to be equivalent to a regression of the firm's value on dividends plus ending book value. Therefore, omitting ending book value from the regression based on the dividend model "biases" the results in favor of the residual earnings model.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Brief, Richard P., The Accounting Component of Discounted Residual Earnings: Some Theoretical and Empirical Implications (March 1996). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2724
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,008
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies