Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Field Experiments in Accounting and Finance

62 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2016

Eric Floyd

University of California San Diego

John A. List

University of Chicago - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

The gold standard in the sciences is uncovering causal relationships. A growing literature in economics utilizes field experiments as a methodology to establish causality between variables. Taking lessons from the economics literature, this study provides an “A-to-Z” description of how to conduct field experiments in accounting and finance. We begin by providing a user’s guide into what a field experiment is, what behavioral parameters field experiments identify, and how to efficiently generate and analyze experimental data. We then provide a discussion of extant field experiments that touch on important issues in accounting and finance, and we also review areas that have ample opportunities for future field experimental explorations. We conclude that the time is ripe for field experimentation to deepen our understanding of important issues in accounting and finance.

Keywords: Field experiments, causality, identification, experimental design, replication

JEL Classification: C00, C9, C93, G00, M4, M5

Suggested Citation:

Floyd, Eric and List, John A., Using Field Experiments in Accounting and Finance (February 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2726025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2726025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
J E Alevy , M S Haigh , J A List
Information Cascades: Evidence from a Field Experiment with Financial Market Professionals
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 151 - 180 Posted: 2007
Crossref
O Al-Ubaydli , J A List
On the Generalizability of Experimental Results in Economics
Methods of Modern Experimental Economics Posted: 2013
Crossref
O Al-Ubaydli , J A List
Do Natural Field Experiments Afford Researchers More or Less Control than Laboratory Experiments?
American Economic Review , volume 105 , p. 462 - 66 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Anderson
Multiple Inference and Gender Differences in the Effects of Early Intervention: A Reevaluation of the Abecedarian, Perry Preschool, and Early Training Projects
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 103 , p. 1481 - 95 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
790
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,758
RANK
72,259
9 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies