Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Number of Estimates in Footnotes and Accruals

Management Science, forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2016 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022

Huafeng (Jason) Chen

Fudan University - Fanhai International School of Finance (FISF)

Jason V. Chen

University of Illinois at Chicago

Feng Li

Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Date Written: November 7, 2022

Abstract

This study quantifies the number of estimates involved in firms’ accruals and examines whether it is informative about the relation between accruals and future earnings. We measure the number of estimates using the frequency of the use of the word estimate in the qualitative portions of a firm’s Notes to the Financial Statements (footnotes). Motivated by arguments regarding the impact of estimation errors in accruals (Sloan 1996, Richardson et al. 2005), we hypothesize and find that the accruals of firms that have more estimates have a lower relation with future earnings (i.e., lower persistence) and a lower association with their past, current, and future cash flows, measured in accord with the approach of Dechow and Dichev (2002).

Keywords: textual analysis; accruals quality; accruals persistence; accrual anomaly

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Huafeng (Jason) and Chen, Jason V. and Li, Feng, The Number of Estimates in Footnotes and Accruals (November 7, 2022). Management Science, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2738842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2738842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
SFAS No. 123 stock-based compensation expense and equity market values
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2004
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
R Ball , R Watts
Some time series properties of accounting income
Journal of Finance , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 663 - 681 Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
739
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,491
RANK
78,944
4 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies