Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Gini Methodology and the ROC curve

7 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2016

Edna Schechtman

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev - Department of Industrial Engineering and Management

Gideon Schechtman

Weizmann Institute of Science

Date Written: February 28, 2016

Abstract

The connection between the area under the ROC curve (AUC), which is frequently used in the diagnosis and classification literature, and the Gini terminology, which is mainly used in the economic literature, is clarified. It is shown that AUC is related to the covariance between Yi, the number of 1's until the ith 0, and F(Ti), the empirical rank of the ith 0, ordered by the predictive probability.

Keywords: Area under the curve (AUC), ROC, Gini covariance, Lorenz curve

Suggested Citation:

Schechtman, Edna and Schechtman, Gideon, The Relationship between Gini Methodology and the ROC curve (February 28, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2739245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Encyclopedia of Machine Learning Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Gini
Reprinted: On the measurement of concentration and variability of characters
Metron, LXIII Posted: 1914
D J Hand , R J Till
A simple generalisation of the area under the ROC curve for multiple class classification problems
Machine Learning , volume 45 , p. 171 - 186 Posted: 2001
N C Kakwani
Applications of Lorenz curves in economic analysis
Econometrica , volume 45 , p. 719 - 727 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,016
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,170
RANK
51,214
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies