Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theorising Interdisciplinary Public Sector Accounting Research

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 7 Mar 2016

Kerry Jacobs

UNSW Canberra School of Business

Date Written: March 6, 2016

Abstract

While the volume of interdisciplinary public sector accounting research has expanded, there has been a call to deepen the theorisation. This paper explores the theorisation of the most highly cited interdisciplinary public sector accounting as a tool to understand better what constitutes the dominant or doxic theoretical approaches. Accountability, New Public Management (NPM) and Habermasian theorisation were the three most significant and dominant approaches which could be seen as examples of what Llewellyn (2003) classifies as grand theory (Habermas) and conceptual innovation (accountability and NPM). Much of the accountability work presents the notion of a clash between different forms of accountability, particularly associated with managerialist NPM characteristics. Despite Llewellyn's (2003) criticism of grand theoretical approaches, there are many examples of Habermasian elements being combined with other theoretical approaches to assist exploration of both micro practices and the broader social and societal impact of public sector changes. As such, there is an endorsement of theoretical approaches which address both the micro behaviour and the macro impact of accounting practices in the context of the public sector.

Keywords: Accounting, Accountability, Interdisciplinary, Theory, NPM

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Jacobs, Kerry, Theorising Interdisciplinary Public Sector Accounting Research (March 6, 2016). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742937
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,253
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies