Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Abnormal Changes in Credit Default Swap Spreads Using Matching-Portfolio Models

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2016 Last revised: 17 Apr 2018

Fabio Bertoni

SKEMA Business School - Paris la Défense Campus

Stefano Lugo

Utrecht University - School of Economics

Date Written: March 30, 2018

Abstract

We evaluate the size and power of different statistical tests and adjustment methods for matching-portfolio models to detect abnormal changes in credit default swap (CDS) spreads. The sign-test generally dominates the signed-rank test in terms of size, and dominates both the t-test and the signed-rank test in terms of power. Traditional adjustment methods often lead to a misspecified sign-test. We propose a new and parsimonious method (the spread-matched method), which leads to a well-specified and more powerful sign-test. The superiority of the spread-matched method is particularly evident for observations characterized by extreme levels of CDS spread. Analyses of CDS samples differing by contract maturity, data source, and time period confirm these results. We perform an event study on rating downgrades to illustrate how the choice of tests and adjustment methods can affect inference.

Keywords: Event studies, Credit default swap, Matching portfolio models, Size and power of tests

JEL Classification: G10, G14

Suggested Citation:

Bertoni, Fabio and Lugo, Stefano, Detecting Abnormal Changes in Credit Default Swap Spreads Using Matching-Portfolio Models (March 30, 2018). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2743243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2743243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
John D Finnerty , D Cameron , Ren-Raw Miller , Chen
The impact of credit rating announcements on credit default swap spreads
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 37 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Koresh Galil , Gil Soffer
Good news, bad news and rating announcements: An empirical investigation
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 35 , p. 3101 - 3119 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Balint L Horvath , Harry Huizinga
Does the european financial stability facility bail out sovereigns or banks? An event study
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 47 , p. 177 - 206 Posted: 2015
Crossref
John Hull , Mirela Predescu , Alan White
The relationship between credit default swap spreads, bond yields, and credit rating announcements
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 28 , p. 2789 - 2811 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,327
RANK
403,165
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies