Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Group Judgment and Decision Making in Auditing: Past and Future Research

2015. Accounting, Organizations and Society 47: 56-72

Posted: 11 Mar 2016

Ken Trotman

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Tim Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Kerry A. Humphreys

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: October 9, 2015

Abstract

We examine the research literature on audit groups/teams focusing on three main areas: the hierarchical review process, brainstorming as part of the fraud detection planning process, and consultation within firms. We restrict our discussion of these three literatures to judgment and decision making (JDM) experiments. We consider research where two or more individuals within the audit firm interact with one another face-to-face, electronically, or where one person prepares/reviews working papers for another. We outline future research within each of the above areas, as well as considering other areas of future research involving within-firm group interactions related to audit teams in context, shared mental models, and audit team diversity (including sustainability assurance), as well as interactions with groups outside the audit firm, particularly audit committees.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Trotman, Ken and Bauer, Tim and Humphreys, Kerry A., Group Judgment and Decision Making in Auditing: Past and Future Research (October 9, 2015). 2015. Accounting, Organizations and Society 47: 56-72, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745620
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,594
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies