Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the 'Numbers Game'

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2016 Last revised: 16 Jul 2019

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Stephen A. Karolyi

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Thomas Ruchti

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: June 21, 2019

Abstract

Two well-known stylized facts on earnings management are that the earnings surprise distribution has a discontinuity at zero, and that positive earnings surprises are associated with positive abnormal returns. We link these two facts in a model of the earnings management decision in which the manager trades off the capital market benefits of meeting earnings benchmarks against the costs of manipulation. We develop a new structural methodology to estimate the model and uncover the unobserved cost function. The estimated model parameters yield the percentage of manipulating firms, magnitude of manipulation, noise in manipulation, and sufficient statistics to evaluate proxies for identifying firms suspected of manipulation. Finally, we use the Sarbanes--Oxley Act as a policy experiment and find that by increasing costs, the Act reduced equilibrium earnings management by 36%. This reduction occurred despite an increase in benefits, consistent with the market rationally becoming less skeptical of firms that just meet benchmarks.

Keywords: earnings management, managerial myopia, structural estimation, financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew and Karolyi, Stephen A. and Ruchti, Thomas, Understanding the 'Numbers Game' (June 21, 2019). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2748220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2748220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Anup Agrawal , Sahiba Chadha , Mark A Chen
Who is afraid of Reg FD? The behavior and performance of sell-side analysts following the SECs fair disclosure rules
The Journal of Business , volume 79 , issue 6 , p. 2811 - 2834 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Vasiliki Athanasakou , Norman C Strong , Martin Walker
The market reward for achieving analyst earnings expectations: does managing expectations or earnings matter?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 38 , p. 58 - 94 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Brad M Barber , Emmanuel T De George , Reuven Lehavy , Brett Trueman
The earnings announcement premium around the globe
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 118 - 138 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Eli Bartov , Daniel A Cohen
The "Numbers Game" in the pre-and post-Sarbanes-Oxley eras
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 505 - 534 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,311
RANK
86,364
10 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies