Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Program Evaluation with Right-Censored Data

40 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2016

Pedro H. C. Sant'Anna

Vanderbilt University - College of Arts and Science - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 9, 2016

Abstract

In a unified framework, we provide estimators and confidence bands for a variety of treatment effects when the outcome of interest, typically a duration, is subjected to right censoring. Our methodology accommodates average, distributional, and quantile treatment effects under different identifying assumptions including unconfoundedness, local treatment effects, and nonlinear differences-in-differences. The proposed estimators are easy to implement, have close-form representation, are fully data-driven upon estimation of nuisance parameters, and do not rely on parametric distributional assumptions, shape restrictions, or on restricting the potential treatment effect heterogeneity across different subpopulations. These treatment effects results are obtained as a consequence of more general results on two-step Kaplan-Meier estimators that are of independent interest: we provide conditions for applying (i) uniform law of large numbers, (ii) functional central limit theorems, and (iii) we prove the validity of the ordinary nonparametric bootstrap in a two-step estimation procedure where the outcome of interest may be randomly censored.

Keywords: Kaplan-Meier Integrals, Survival Analysis; Policy Evaluation, Treatment effects, Duration models

Suggested Citation:

Sant'Anna, Pedro H. C., Program Evaluation with Right-Censored Data (April 9, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2752760 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2752760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
A Abadie
Bootstrap tests for distributional treatment effects in instrumental variable models
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 97 , p. 231 - 263 Posted: 2002
A Abadie , J D Angrist , G W Imbens
Instrumental variables estimates of the effect of subsidized training on the quantiles of trainee earnings
Econometrica , volume 70 , p. 91 - 117 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J H Abbring , G J Van Den , Berg
The nonparametric identification of treatment effects in duration models
Econometrica , volume 71 , p. 1491 - 1517 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M G Akritas
The central limit theorem under censoring Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,796
RANK
129,029
8 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies