Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dealing with Heteroskedasticity, Autocorrelation and Endogeneity in German Audit Fee Panel Data - Comparing Approaches

34 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2016

Balthasar Hoehn

University of Wuerzburg

Florian Schuberth

University of Twente

Manuel Steiner

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Date Written: November 25, 2014

Abstract

In this paper we provide an extensive comparison between commonly used linear econometric methods in the audit fee literature and explicitly address their underlying assumptions. As opposed to common practice in similar papers we explicitly consider violations of the strict exogeneity assumption in terms of unobserved firm-specific effects and argue that endogeneity is likely to be present in audit fee data sets. This leads to significantly different results for magnitude and significance level of most explanatory variables. Additionally, we encourage researchers to use the in the audit fee literature not so widely-spread Hausman-Taylor estimator to benefit from its efficiency.

Keywords: audit fees, panel data, endogeneity, Hausman-Taylor estimator

JEL Classification: M40, M42, C21, C23, C26

Suggested Citation:

Hoehn, Balthasar and Schuberth, Florian and Steiner, Manuel, Dealing with Heteroskedasticity, Autocorrelation and Endogeneity in German Audit Fee Panel Data - Comparing Approaches (November 25, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2756338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2756338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
M Arellano
Computing robust standard errors for within-groups estimators
Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 431 - 434 Posted: 1987
Crossref
B H Baltagi
Econometric Analysis of Panel Data Wiley Posted: 2014
B H Baltagi , G Bresson , A Pirotte
Fixed effects, random effects or HausmanTaylor? A pretest estimator
Economic Letters , volume 79 , p. 361 - 369 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R P Beatty
The economic determinants of auditor compensation in the initial public offerings market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 294 - 302 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,797
RANK
149,830
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies