Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
With One Shot, Which Bullet Would You Use? Market versus Accounting Data in Bankruptcy Prediction - Part II (A Strong Case of Using Nonparametric MDA in Bankruptcy Prediction)

The International Journal of Finance, 26(3), 2015

42 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2016

Giovanni Fernandez

Stetson University

Arun J. Prakash

Florida International University (FIU) - Department of Finance; Florida International University

Suchi Mishra

Florida International University (FIU) - Department of Finance

Date Written: April 1, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, we test the predictive power of a nonparametric multivariate discriminant model to predict corporate bankruptcy. In contrast with the previous literature, we employ not only accounting ratios, but also market and microstructure variables. The most important finding are that market variables alone are best at correctly classifying bankrupt firms, and that the nonparametric model is superior to the traditional, parametric models. This prevents the use of restrictive and unrealistic assumptions, while employing forward looking variables.

Suggested Citation:

Fernandez, Giovanni and Prakash, Arun Jai and Mishra, Suchismita, With One Shot, Which Bullet Would You Use? Market versus Accounting Data in Bankruptcy Prediction - Part II (A Strong Case of Using Nonparametric MDA in Bankruptcy Prediction) (April 1, 2016). The International Journal of Finance, 26(3), 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2757793
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A Aziz , D Emanuel , Lawson , G
Bankruptcy prediction -An investigation of cash flow based models
Journal of Management Studies , volume 25 Posted: 1988
Crossref
W Beaver
The information content of annual earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M Blum
Failing company discriminant analysis
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 12 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1974
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,328
RANK
658,366
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies