Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
With One Shot, Which Bullet Would You Use?: Market versus Accounting Data in Bankruptcy Prediction - Part III (The Strong Case of the Use of Neural Networks in Bankruptcy Prediction)

The International Journal of Finance, 26(4), 2015

75 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2016

Giovanni Fernandez

Stetson University

Arun J. Prakash

Florida International University (FIU) - Department of Finance; Florida International University

Suchi Mishra

Florida International University (FIU) - Department of Finance

Date Written: April 1, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, we test the predictive power of neural networks to predict corporate bankruptcy. In contrast with the previous literature, we not only use nontraditional models and employ accounting ratios, but also market and microstructure variables. The most important findings are that market variables alone are best at correctly classifying bankrupt firms, the multi-layer perceptron is the preferable neural network model due to the nonlinear relation between predictive variables and bankruptcy, and the multi-layer perceptron has higher classification rates for all different input sets and years.

Suggested Citation:

Fernandez, Giovanni and Prakash, Arun Jai and Mishra, Suchismita, With One Shot, Which Bullet Would You Use?: Market versus Accounting Data in Bankruptcy Prediction - Part III (The Strong Case of the Use of Neural Networks in Bankruptcy Prediction) (April 1, 2016). The International Journal of Finance, 26(4), 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2757764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
J Boritz , D Kennedy
Effectiveness of neural network types for prediction of business failure Posted: 1995
P Coats
Recognizing financial distress patterns using a neural network tool
Financial Management , volume 22 , p. 142 - 155 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Jo , I Han , H Lee
Bankruptcy prediction using case-based reasoning, neural networks, and discriminant analysis
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 13 , p. 97 - 108 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M Leshno , Y Spector
Neural-network prediction analysis -the bankruptcy case
Neurocomputing , volume 10 , p. 125 - 147 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
M Jayadev , Neel Shah , Ravi Vadlamani
Predicting Educational Loan Defaults: Application of Machine Learning and Deep Learning Models
IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 601 (2019) · 46 Pages · Posted: 27 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 24 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 570
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
RANK
362,694
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies