Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying Fuzzy Logic to Evaluate the BSC's Performance for a Random Private Iraqi Banks Group

International Journal of Banking, Finance & Digital Marketing, Vol.1, Issue 1, Oct-Dec, 2015, pp 42-54

13 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2016

Thabit Thabit

Ninevah University

Date Written: December 15, 2015

Abstract

The bank managers must measure the performance of their activities, measuring the performance by Balanced Scorecard of banks is very important for the investors and decision makers. Evaluating the performance of the banks that measured by BSC has uncertainly values because of the uncompleted and linguistic information. Fuzzy logic can give the solution for these problems. Functions of fuzzy logic can transfer the values of uncompleted and linguistic information to classical values. for that the combination between BSC and Functions of fuzzy logic is very useful to get the true vision about the performance of the bank, and to let the mangers to make the best strategies for their banks. In this paper, a new method is applied to solve the up mentioned problem using the fuzzy functions embedded in the MatLab program.

Keywords: Fuzzy Logic, Balanced Scorecard, Performance, Linguistic Values, Classical Values

Suggested Citation:

Thabit, Thabit, Applying Fuzzy Logic to Evaluate the BSC's Performance for a Random Private Iraqi Banks Group (December 15, 2015). International Journal of Banking, Finance & Digital Marketing, Vol.1, Issue 1, Oct-Dec, 2015, pp 42-54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2762583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Al-Hubaity , M Qasim , Thabit , H Thabit
The Use of Fuzzy Logic Model for Decision Making Depending on Multiple Linguistic Criteria: An Accounting Study in Ways of Pricing Products , journal of Tanmiatalrafiain , administration and economic collage , volume 110 , p. 105 - 122 Posted: 2012
T M El-Hossainy
A Fuzzy Model for Multi-Criteria
JKAU: Eng. Sci , volume 1 , issue 22 , p. 99 - 118 Posted: 2011
V Novák , I Perfilieva , J Močkoř
Mathematical principles of fuzzy logic Posted: 1999
Crossref
Timothy J Ross
Fuzzy Logic with Engineering Applications , Third Edition Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
11 Citations
Thabit Thabit
تأثير شبكات التواصل الإجتماعي على توليد المعرفة وتعزيز الإبداع الوظيفي (The Impact of Social Networks to Generate Knowledge and Enhance Employment Creativity)
23 Pages · Posted: 29 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 828
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thabit Thabit
الإطار النظري للذكاء الإقتصادي (The Theoretical Framework of Economic Intelligent)
16 Pages · Posted: 29 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 1,050
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tim Sovaniski
Design and Implementation an Accounting Information System for Commercial Companies
17 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 52
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tim Sovaniski
Evaluating the Liquidity Management of Indian Commercial Banks
11 Pages · Posted: 28 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 674
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,323
RANK
531,260
11 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies