Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Language FTR and Earnings Management: International Evidence

50 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2016

Marco Fasan

Università Ca’ Foscari Venezia; Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Giorgio Gotti

University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP)

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Yi Liu

McMaster University - Accounting & Financial Management Services

Date Written: April 2016

Abstract

We study whether a particular aspect of language structure, the future-time reference (FTR) of a language, explains variation in corporate earnings management behaviors around the world. Based on the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis (Whorf 1956), we predict that grammatically referencing the future, which induces humans to perceive the future more sharply distinct from the present, induces myopic management behavior. In support of this idea, we find that firms headquartered in strong-FTR language countries are more likely to engage in accrual and real activities earnings management to meet short-term earning benchmarks.

Keywords: Accrual-based Earnings Management, Real Earnings Management, Future-Time-Reference, Language, Myopia, Short-Termism

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Fasan, Marco and Fasan, Marco and Gotti, Giorgio and Kang, Tony and Liu, Yi, Language FTR and Earnings Management: International Evidence (April 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2763922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2763922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
553
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,189
RANK
114,562
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies