Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Approach to Organisational Ethnographic Research: Strategy, Methods and Processes

Posted: 30 Sep 1996

John Russell

University of Southampton - School of Management

Date Written: March 1996

Abstract

Among qualitative methods ethnography, which has its roots in anthropology and interpretive sociology, is recognized by an increasing number of researchers as an appropriate strategy for studying organizations. The method is also seen as offering the potential for new and additional insights into accounting phenomena and has thus been adopted by researchers in management accounting. The transfer of the method has not however, been unproblematic with limitations being identified in both theory and research practice. It has been suggested that its application in management accounting can be characterized by a failure to disclose the theoretical foundations on which the work is based and a tendency for borrowing from the source disciplines to be eclectic with consequential theoretical inconsistencies. It is also suggested that there is scope to extend and enrich the approach by exploring how issues power and ideology might be integrated into the interpretive framework. Turning to research practice, similar scope for development is seen in relation to research validity procedures. This paper seeks to address issues arising from these perceived limitations by drawing on the source literature to describe a symbolic interactionist approach to enthnography that is cognizant of the methodological implications of symbolic interactionism and provides a platform for integrating issues of power and ideology. Finally, the paper discusses strategies and procedures for enhancing the likelihood that findings generated by this approach will be regarded as meaningful or trustworthy.

JEL Classification: B49, M14, M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Russell, John, An Approach to Organisational Ethnographic Research: Strategy, Methods and Processes (March 1996). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2763
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,367
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies