Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Research: The First Decade

Posted: 22 Aug 2001

Robert W. Scapens

The University of Manchester - Division of Accounting and Finance

Michael Bromwich

London School of Economics

Abstract

This paper is in the form of a report from the Editors on the first 10 years of Management Accounting Research. It describes the diversity of papers which have been published in the journal ? in terms of their topics, research setting - theoretical orientation and research methods. It also briefly compares the research published in Management Accounting Research with the management accounting research by North Americans described by Shields (1997). Finally, it calls for more papers to explore the boundaries of management accounting and its nature in new organisational forms, both within and beyond the existing organisational boundaries.

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Scapens, Robert W. and Bromwich, Michael, Management Accounting Research: The First Decade. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=276716
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies