Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Helpful Is Econometrics to Tax Research?

21:3 New Zealand J. of Tax Law and Policy 292 (2015)

25 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2016

Bret Bogenschneider

Texas A&M University - Kingsville

Date Written: July 25, 2015

Abstract

Econometrics is defined as the application of statistical analysis (that is, numbers) to theory. The promise of such a purportedly “objective” and “scientific” approach to tax policy allowed econometrics to partly displace jurisprudence within the field of taxation. However, econometric methodology does not always follow the scientific method and its adherents often present econometric “truths” in quasi-religious terms. The “17 Theses” are presented here as a list of objections to such econometric methodology. For each of the “Theses,” a short explanation is presented illustrating the perceived shortcoming of econometrics to tax lawyers.

Suggested Citation:

Bogenschneider, Bret, How Helpful Is Econometrics to Tax Research? (July 25, 2015). 21:3 New Zealand J. of Tax Law and Policy 292 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2769830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Because policymakers may consider the state of the economy when setting taxes, endogeneity bias can arise in regression models that estimate relationships between economic variables and taxes. This paper quantifies the policy endogeneity bias and estimates the impact of R&D tax incentives on R&D expenditures at the U.S. state level."; see also Elisabeth Holmes and Kevin Holmes "Income Tax Treatment of Research and Development Expenditure
<www.federalreserve.gov/> at , volume 1 Posted: 2008
Paul Davidson
Reality and economic theory
Journal of Post Keynesian Economics , volume 18 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Malinvaud
Crossref
A Paul , Samuelson
Classical and Neoclassical Monetary Theory
RW Clower (ed) Monetary Theory: Selected Readings Posted: 1969
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,017
RANK
184,062
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies