Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tackling Complexity in Business & Society Research: The Methodological and Thematic Potential of Factorial Surveys

Business & Society (doi: 10.1177/0007650316645337)

46 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2016

Josua Oll

University of Oldenburg; Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg

Rüdiger Hahn

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf

Daniel Reimsbach

Nijmegen School of Management Radboud University

Peter Kotzian

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf; Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: April 25, 2016

Abstract

Factorial surveys (FSs) integrate elements of survey research and classical experiments. Using a large number of respondents in a controlled setting, FSs approximate complex and realistic judgment situations through so-called vignettes — that is, carefully designed descriptions of hypothetical people, social situations, or scenarios. Despite being rooted, and predominantly applied, in sociology, FSs are particularly promising for business and society (B&S) scholars. Given the multiplicity, inherent complexity, and sometimes fuzziness of B&S research objects, conventional research methods inevitably reach their limits. This article, therefore, systematically presents methodological and thematic opportunities for FS studies in B&S research. It is argued that FSs are well suited to dealing with the complex interplay of societal-, organizational-, and individual-level factors in B&S research and to studying the principles underlying human perceptions, attitudes, values, social norms, and (anticipated) behavior. The application of the FS method is illustrated based on a showcase example in the realm of socially responsible investments (SRIs). As the literature on the conceptualization of FSs is limited, methodological challenges are addressed to guide B&S researchers past the common methodological pitfalls.

Keywords: Factorial surveys, vignette study, experiment, research methods, multilevel research, socially responsible investments

Suggested Citation:

Oll, Josua and Hahn, Rüdiger and Reimsbach, Daniel and Kotzian, Peter, Tackling Complexity in Business & Society Research: The Methodological and Thematic Potential of Factorial Surveys (April 25, 2016). Business & Society (doi: 10.1177/0007650316645337), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2769891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
K Auspurg , T Hinz , S Liebig , C Sauer
Wie unplausibel darf es sein? Der Einfluss von Designmerkmalen auf das Antwortverhalten in 59 Faktoriellen Surveys
Unsichere Zeiten: Herausforderungen gesellschaftlicher Transformationen , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2010
K Auspurg , A Jackle
First Equals Most Important?: Order Effects in VignetteBased Measurement
Sociological Methods & Research Posted: 2015
Crossref
C Barter , E Renold
I wanna tell you a story': Exploring the application of vignettes in qualitative research with children and young people
International Journal of Social Research Methodology , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 307 - 323 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Beck , K.-D Opp
Der faktorielle Survey und die Messung von Normen
KZfSS Kölner Zeitschrift für Soziologie und Sozialpsychologie , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 283 - 306 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,572
RANK
359,199
3 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies