Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing for Error Cross-Sectional Independence Using Pairwise Augmented Regressions

26 Pages Posted: 1 May 2016

Guangyu Mao

Beijing Jiaotong University - School of Economics and Management

Date Written: April 29, 2016

Abstract

This paper proposes two statistics for testing error cross-sectional independence in a static linear heterogeneous panel data model by virtue of PAR (Pairwise Augmented Regressions). The tests based on the two statistics are extensions to the CD test Pesaran (2004) and the bias-adjusted LM test Pesaran et al. (2008) respectively. Unlike the two existing tests that are justified under the sequential limits, the newly developed tests can be justified under the simultaneous limits without any additional restriction imposed on the cross-sectional and time-series dimensions. Moreover, it is proved that the new tests can even be justified under the HDLSS (High Dimension, Low Sample Size) limits provided that a homo-rank condition holds. Several simulation experiments are conducted to evaluate the performance of the newly introduced tests. The simulation results show that use of the tests may bring significant improvement, especially in the cases of large cross-sectional dimension and small time-series dimension.

Keywords: Cross-Sectional Dependence, HDLSS, Heterogeneous Panels, Independence Test, Simultaneous Limits

JEL Classification: C12, C33

Suggested Citation:

Mao, Guangyu, Testing for Error Cross-Sectional Independence Using Pairwise Augmented Regressions (April 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2772409 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2772409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D W K Andrews
Cross-section regression with common shocks
Econometrica , volume 73 , p. 1551 - 1585 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Bai
Panel data models with interactive fixed effects
Econometrica , volume 77 , p. 1229 - 1279 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B H Baltagi , Q Feng , C Kao
Testing for sphericity in a fixed effects panel data model
Econometrics Journal , volume 14 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B H Baltagi , Q Feng , C Kao
A Lagrange multiplier test for cross-sectional dependence in a fixed effects panel data model
Journal of Econometrics , volume 170 , p. 164 - 177 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,080
RANK
446,506
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies