Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time to Fulfilment of Stock Recommendations Based on Technical Analysis: A Survival Analysis Approach

18 Pages Posted: 17 May 2016

Devlina Chatterjee

IIT Kanpur

Saurabh Kumar

Genpact, Analytics

Date Written: May 15, 2016

Abstract

Stock recommendations based on technical analysis have been evaluated by researchers in terms of the abnormal excess returns generated compared to some benchmark return. Here, instead of looking at the magnitude of excess returns, we study the liquidity of trading strategies based on analyst recommendations as an indicator of their efficacy. We use an event study methodology for 403 technical calls published over a period of four years from 2011 to 2015 on an on-line finance portal. Parametric survival models were built to understand the factors that might affect the time taken for a stock to reach the targeted sell/buy price. Lower targeted returns, a bullish market trend, and greater volumes of trading in the pre-recommendation period lead to smaller times to fulfillment for technical calls. However, consistent with other studies, we find that analysts using technical analysis have not been able to provide recommendations that consistently yield high returns in a short period of time.

Keywords: Analyst Recommendations, Technical Analysis, Survival Analysis, Indian Stock Market, Liquidity

JEL Classification: G14, C41

Suggested Citation:

Chatterjee, Devlina and Kumar, Saurabh, Time to Fulfilment of Stock Recommendations Based on Technical Analysis: A Survival Analysis Approach (May 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2780112 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2780112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M Al-Suhaibani , L Kryzanowski
An exploratory analysis of the order book, and order flow and execution on the Saudi stock market
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 24 , issue 8 , p. 1323 - 1357 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E Andersson , J Holmberg Eriksson
Rationality of Individual Investors: The Case of Placera
Thesis Umeå School of Business and Economics Posted: 2013
Mark E. Bagnoli , Michael B. Clement , Michael Joseph Crawley , Susan G. Watts
The Profitability of Analysts’ Stock Recommendations: What Role Does Investor Sentiment Play?*
Pages: 40 Posted: 9 Jul 2009 Last revised: 12 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Bessembinder , M Panayides , K Venkataraman
Hidden liquidity: an analysis of order exposure strategies in electronic stock markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 3 , p. 361 - 383 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,042
RANK
189,693
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies