Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing a Fuzzy Corporate Performance Rating System: A Petrochemical Industry Case Study

Journal of Cleaner Production (2016), V. 131, 421–434, doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.05.007

14 Pages Posted: 23 May 2016 Last revised: 3 Aug 2016

Amir Rahdari

Tarbiat Modares University

Date Written: May 10, 2016

Abstract

The surge of socioeconomic and environmental problems in the recent decades have exacted a clarion call for transitioning to more sustainable and responsible business practices. Developing multiple bottom line performance evaluation systems, in order to track the progress made, is at the fulcrum of such a transition. The purpose of this study is to design a triangular rating system for multiple bottom line performance evaluation using corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and corporate financial performance ratings. Furthermore, using a case study approach, the framework is tested in a high impact industry i.e. Iranian petrochemical industry. The result of the analyses showed no significant relationship among the three dimensions of the rating system which mainly stemmed from the failure of the examined market in adopting responsible business practices. Moreover, sensitivity analyses were conducted to account for any discrepancies in the outcomes as a result of using fuzzy numbers and weighting vectors. The study makes two major contributions. Theoretically, it proposes a triangular framework for performance evaluation using key performance indicators. Empirically, it applies the framework to a set of cases from the petrochemical industry by employing two prominent multi-attribute decision making models using fuzzy sets. Finally, the study concludes that failing to integrate environmental, social, and governance measures into decision making processes, in brazen defiance of stakeholders' needs, is the main culprit of an unsustainable and irresponsible corporate environment.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Corporate social responsibility, Corporate financial performance, Fuzzy, Decision making, Rating

Suggested Citation:

Rahdari, Amir, Developing a Fuzzy Corporate Performance Rating System: A Petrochemical Industry Case Study (May 10, 2016). Journal of Cleaner Production (2016), V. 131, 421–434, doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.05.007 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2783166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
J M Agudo-Valiente , C Garc Es-Ayerbe , M Salvador-Figueras
Corporate social performance and stakeholder dialogue management
Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag , volume 22 , p. 13 - 31 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Alazzani , W.-H N Wan
Global reporting initiative's environmental reporting: a study of oil and gas
Ecol. Indic , volume 32 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E K Aydogan
Performance measurement model for Turkish aviation firms using the rough-AHP and TOPSIS methods under fuzzy environment
Expert Syst. Appl , volume 38 , p. 3992 - 3998 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M L Barnett , R M Salomon
Does it pay to be really good? Addressing the shape of the Relationship between social and financial performance. Strategic Manag
J , volume 33 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,012
RANK
588,270
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies