Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linguistic Perception of Corporate Responsibility Disclosure: The Case of Japanese Idemitsu

Udo Braendle, Amir Hossein Rahdari , (2016) "Linguistic perception of corporate responsibility disclosure: the case of Japanese Idemitsu", Social Responsibility Journal, Vol. 12 Issue: 2

Posted: 23 May 2016

Udo C. Braendle

American University in Dubai

Amir Rahdari

Tarbiat Modares University

Date Written: April 2016

Abstract

Purpose: A case is examined to illustrate the linguistic perception of corporate responsibility disclosures.

Design/methodology/approach: In this study, a content analysis framework based on fuzzy linguistic variables is proposed to measure the level of sustainable and responsible practices perceived by the stakeholders. A case is examined to illustrate the linguistic perception of corporate responsibility disclosures.

Findings: The results demonstrated a significant difference between Perception of Disclosure, using linguistic variables and most common sustainability indicators, and a Boolean analysis based on sustainability reporting indicators. The approach helps companies in developing a more robust stakeholder management program and to better respond to stakeholders’ demands.

Research limitations/implications: Future studies can evaluate corporate responsibility and sustainability performance using linguistic variables.

Practical implications: The approach helps companies in developing a more robust stakeholder management program and to better respond to stakeholders’ demands.

Originality/value: Most of the studies on corporate responsibility disclosure analysis have focused on a binary response to the level of disclosure of a certain economic, social, environmental or governance issue, however, how a disclosed item is being perceived by the user has not been taken into consideration.

Keywords: sustainability reporting, corporate social responsibility, fuzzy, GRI, content analysis

Suggested Citation:

Braendle, Udo C. and Rahdari, Amir, Linguistic Perception of Corporate Responsibility Disclosure: The Case of Japanese Idemitsu (April 2016). Udo Braendle, Amir Hossein Rahdari , (2016) "Linguistic perception of corporate responsibility disclosure: the case of Japanese Idemitsu", Social Responsibility Journal, Vol. 12 Issue: 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2783212
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,123
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies