Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Artificial Neural Network Model and Logistics Regression in Prediction of Companies’ Bankruptcy (A Case Study of Tehran Stock Exchange)

International Journal of Advanced Computer Research, Vol 6(24), 2016

12 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2016

Ali Mansouri

Zanjan University

Arezoo Nazari

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Department of Accounting

Morteza Ramazani

Young Researchers and Elite Club, Zanjan Branch, Islamic Azad University, Zanjan, Iran

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper aims to focus on the comparison of the artificial neural network model and logistic regression model in the prediction of companies’ bankruptcy in Tehran stock exchange (TSE) in 3, 2 and 1 year in advance. This study exercises an analytic-mathematical approach which has been utilized three-layer artificial neural network tools, which includes one hidden layer and one output neuron and logistic regression (LR) with seven independent variable and one dependent variable for testing research’s hypotheses. Although the given results illustrates the high potential capacities of both models in the prediction of bankruptcies in an interval of three years, two years and one year before bankruptcy, capacity of neural network model showed the relative higher capability than LR model. This study takes into consideration the comparison of two popular tools of artificial neural networks (ANNs) and LR in bankruptcy prediction that are of importance in their own type.

Keywords: Logistic regression (LR), Artificial neural networks (ANNs), Tehran stock exchange (TSE), Bankruptcy prediction

Suggested Citation:

Mansouri, Ali and Nazari, Arezoo and Ramazani, Morteza, A Comparison of Artificial Neural Network Model and Logistics Regression in Prediction of Companies’ Bankruptcy (A Case Study of Tehran Stock Exchange) (June 1, 2016). International Journal of Advanced Computer Research, Vol 6(24), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2787308 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2787308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Saghafi
Evaluation of bankruptcy predicting factors in Iranian environmental Posted: 2002
K C Lee , I Han , Y Kwon
Hybrid neural network models for bankruptcy predictions. Decision Support Systems , volume 18 , p. 63 - 72 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M J Gordon
Towards a theory of financial distress
The Journal of Finance , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 347 - 56 Posted: 1971
Crossref
R B Whitaker
The early stages of financial distress
Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 155 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,192
RANK
225,084
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies