Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Consistency of the Z-Score to Measure the Bank Risk

33 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2016

Ion Lapteacru

University of Bordeaux

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper raises questions about the consistency of the Z-score, which is the most applied accounting-based measure of bank risk. In spite of its advantage, namely the concept of risk on which it relies, the traditional formula is precisely inconsistent with its own concept. The Z-score is deduced from the probability that bank’s losses exceed its capital, but under the very unrealistic assumption of normally distributed returns on assets. Consequently, we show that the traditional Z-score fails to consider correctly the distribution of banks’ returns. To make the Z-score consistent and preserve its original concept of risk, we propose more flexible distribution functions. Between skew normal and stable distributions, we prove that the latter fits the best the distribution of banks’ returns and therefore provides more reliable results for the Z-score. An application on the experience of the Central and Eastern European banks confirms this theoretical prove.

Suggested Citation:

Lapteacru, Ion, On the Consistency of the Z-Score to Measure the Bank Risk (June 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2787567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2787567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
D Anginer , A Demirgüç-Kunt , M Zhu
How does deposit insurance affect bank risk? Evidence from the recent Crisis
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 48 , p. 312 - 321 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Anollia , E Beccalli , Ph Molyneux
Bank earnings forecasts, risk and the crisis
Journal of International Financial Markets , volume 29 , p. 309 - 335 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J P Bonin , K Mizsei , I P Székely , P Wachtel
Banking in Transition Economies: Developing Market Oriented Banking Sectors in Eastern Europe Posted: 1998
J P Bonin , I Hasan , P Wachtel , Allen N Berger , Molyneux , Philip , John O S Wilson
Banking in Transition Countries
The Oxford Handbook of Banking , p. 963 - 983 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
459
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,784
RANK
143,763
9 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies