Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Qualitative Interview Based Research: A Primer with an Illustrative Example

61 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2016

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Staci Kenno

Brock University - Goodman School of Business

Susan A. McCracken

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

Responding to increased calls for financial reporting researchers to “enter the field”, the goal of this article is to provide a basic primer on how to conduct field-based research using qualitative interview methods. We start by reviewing the extant, but limited, field research literature in financial reporting. We then assemble a set of resources that facilitate transfer of explicit (also known as declarative, codified or “textbook”) knowledge about the interview method. Next, following knowledge transfer theory we attempt to bridge the “knowing-doing gap” by reviewing how we carried out a study on earnings press release creation process. This example driven approach allows us to not only illustrate how explicit knowledge of interview-methods can be applied, but also provides a means to highlight the tacit knowledge about implementation issues and choices. By following the advice in this article, novice field researchers in financial reporting will gain a basic fluency in qualitative interview-based methods that will enable them to more readily acquire the knowledge and skills to respond to the challenge of going into the field and conducting valid, reliable, field based financial reporting research.

Keywords: Field Research, Financial Reporting, Interviews, Qualitative Methods

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E. and Kenno, Staci and McCracken, Susan A., Financial Reporting Qualitative Interview Based Research: A Primer with an Illustrative Example (June 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2792438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2792438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
136 References
An evaluation of directors' and auditors' experiences with the Financial Reporting Review Panel
Accounting, Auditing, and Accountability Journal , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 84
T J Shevlin , N Shroff
Incentives for Tax Planning and Avoidance: Evidence from the Field, The Overview of field research Posted: 2014
R K Yin
Case Study Research: Design and Methods 5 th Edition Posted: 2014
D J Cooper , W Morgan
Case study research in accounting
Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
677
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,909
RANK
88,297
9 Citations
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies