Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moving beyond the Lab: Building on Experimental Accounting Researchers' Core Competencies to Expand Methodological Diversity in Behavioral Accounting Research

The Routledge Companion to Behavioral Research in Accounting, Chapter 12, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2016

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Pujawati Mariestha (Estha) Gondowijoyo

University of Melbourne

Date Written: February 2, 2016

Abstract

There have been increased calls for rigorous research that contributes to both practice and academic literature. We argue that behavioural accounting experimental researchers (BAR researchers) are particularly well-positioned to answer this call by carrying out research that directly study the experiences of practitioners. BAR researchers develop five competencies - familiarity with a broad range of theories, close engagement with practice, selection of appropriate participants, focus on ex-ante instrument design and careful measurement of underlying constructs – through their training. These five competencies can be leveraged to carry out two experience-based research methods – experiential survey and qualitative field studies – that facilitate systematic development of theory-based (or informed) evidence about current accounting practices. We elaborate on these two experiential research methods and demonstrate how each of BAR researchers’ core competencies indeed equips them to implement these methods. Our hope is that despite the potential ‘costs’ encountered in taking the leap, BAR researchers will take on the challenge of contributing towards the expansion of methodological diversity in behavioural accounting research and more importantly, the development of more impactful, practically oriented accounting research.

Keywords: Research Methods, Experiential Survey, Qualitative Methods, Auditing, Management Accounting, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E. and Gondowijoyo, Pujawati Mariestha (Estha), Moving beyond the Lab: Building on Experimental Accounting Researchers' Core Competencies to Expand Methodological Diversity in Behavioral Accounting Research (February 2, 2016). The Routledge Companion to Behavioral Research in Accounting, Chapter 12, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2792439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
173 References
C Emby , M Favere-Marchesi
Review Partners and Engagement Partners: The Interaction Process in Engagement Quality Review Posted: 2010
Crossref
Michael Gibbins , Alan Webb , Steven E. Salterio
Evidence About Auditor-Client Management Negotiation Concerning Client's Financial Reporting
Pages: 47 Posted: 16 Feb 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Gibbins , K Trotman
Audit review: Managers' interpersonal expectations and conduct of the review Posted: 2002
Crossref
D N Herda , J J Lavelle
Auditor Commitment to Privately Held Clients and its Effect on Value-Added Audit Service Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,602
RANK
223,562
2 Citations
173 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies