Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Custom Contrast Testing: Current Trends and a New Approach

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Jun 2016 Last revised: 15 Nov 2017

Ryan Guggenmos

University of South Carolina - Department of Accounting

M. David Piercey

University of Massachusetts Amherst

Christopher P. Agoglia

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

Date Written: November 14, 2017

Abstract

Contrast analysis has become prevalent in experimental accounting research since Buckless and Ravenscroft (1990) introduced it to the accounting literature over twenty-five years ago. Since its initial introduction, the scope of contrast testing has expanded, yet guidance as to the most appropriate methods of specifying, conducting, interpreting, and exhibiting these tests has not. We survey the use of contrast analysis in the recent literature and propose a three-part testing approach that provides a more comprehensive picture of contrast results. Our approach considers three pieces of complementary evidence: the visual evaluation of fit, traditional significance testing, and quantitative evaluation of the contrast variance residual. Our measure of the contrast variance residual, q2, is proposed for the first time in this work. After proposing our approach, we walk through six common contrast testing scenarios where current practices may fall short and our approach may guide researchers. We extend Buckless and Ravenscroft (1990) and contribute to the accounting research methods literature by documenting current contrast analysis practices that result in elevated Type I error and by proposing a potential solution to mitigate these concerns.

Keywords: Contrast weights, interactions, experimental research, accounting research

JEL Classification: C10, C12, C13, C90, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Guggenmos, Ryan and Piercey, M. David and Agoglia, Christopher P., Custom Contrast Testing: Current Trends and a New Approach (November 14, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2797514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2797514
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,631
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies