Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transporting Transparency: Director Foreign Experience and Corporate Information Environment

28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting

Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2016 Last revised: 8 Nov 2021

Guanmin Liao

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Xiaoyun Yu

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR)

Date Written: November 6, 2021

Abstract

Using hand-collected data and exploiting a natural experiment in China, we show that directors with foreign experience improve corporate transparency in emerging markets. The positive effect of these directors manifests itself if their experience originates from countries with high disclosure quality, if they reach a critical mass at the board, or if they serve on the audit committee. When exploring potential channels, we find that earnings transparency and voluntary disclosure increase after firms hire directors with foreign experience. Furthermore, once directors without such experience begin interacting with these savvy individuals, they are more likely to dissent on management proposals; transparency also propagates to other firms with which they hold board seats. These findings highlight the role of board diversity in shaping transparency and facilitating governance transfer within boardrooms and across firms.

Keywords: Foreign experience, corporate transparency, board of directors, board diversity, returnees, international human capital

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Guanmin and Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Yu, Xiaoyun, Transporting Transparency: Director Foreign Experience and Corporate Information Environment (November 6, 2021). 28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting, Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803195
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
D Anderson
Taking stock in China: Company disclosure and information in China's stock markets
Georgetown Law Journal , volume 88 , issue 6 , p. 1919 - 1952 Posted: 2000
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Load more
10 Citations
Yangyang Chen , Kaijuan Gao , Manya Wang , Leon Zolotoy
Does Foreign Experience Matter for Analysts’ Forecasting Performance?
JBF-D-23-00584 · 51 Pages · Posted: 14 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shangkun Liang , 牛煜皓 Niu , Fu Xin , Lixian Jiang
CEO Foreign Experience and Corporate Financial Investment
IREF-D-23-00512 · 41 Pages · Posted: 20 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 142
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wenyi Dong , Xin Gao , Donghui Li , Shijie Yang
Information Centralization and Stock Price Crash Risk: Cross-Country Evidence
JBF-D-23-01231 · 59 Pages · Posted: 15 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 34
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Madison Borrelli , Douglas J. Cumming , Melissa Frye , Ann Marie Whyte
Do Foreign Directors Import Their Backgrounds into the Boardroom? Evidence from Compensation and CEO Turnover
43 Pages · Posted: 15 Apr 2024 · Last revised: 25 May 2024 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,784
RANK
151,482
10 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies