Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Univariate Analysis and Corporate Failure

Operations Research Society of Nepal (OSRN)- National Seminar on” Operations Research: Applications in Developing Countries. Kathmandu, Nepal Feb 1-2, 2013

16 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2016

Ghanendra Fago

Shanker Dev Campus, Tribhuvan University, Nepal

Date Written: February 1, 2013

Abstract

The main objective is to assess univariate prediction power of financial ratios in failure prediction context. Although most of the previous studies in the past years are dominated by multivariate statistical and non-statistical analysis, univariate approaches are popularly used in literature and practices as well. Thus, this study has examined usefulness of twenty four financial ratios in discrimination of failed and non-failed companies over the period using Beavers' profile analysis, dichotomous classification test, univariate discriminant analysis and univariate logistic analysis. On the basis of profile analysis and classification and accuracies of failed and non-failed companies, this study shows that out of twenty four financial ratios the ratios of current liabilities to total liabilities (CL/TD), current assets to total liabilities (CA/CL), operating cash flow to total debts (CF/TD), net income to total assets (NI/TA), shareholders' equity to total liabilities (SE/TD) and working capital to total assets (WC/TA) are found the most important ratios to discriminate failed and non-failed companies at least five years prior to failure.

Keywords: Corporate Failure, Financial Ratios, Profile Analysis, Dichotomous Classification Test, Univariate Discriminant analysis, Univariate logistic analysis etc.

Suggested Citation:

Fago, Ghanendra, The Univariate Analysis and Corporate Failure (February 1, 2013). Operations Research Society of Nepal (OSRN)- National Seminar on” Operations Research: Applications in Developing Countries. Kathmandu, Nepal Feb 1-2, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2804765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 610 Posted: 1968
Crossref
W H Beaver
Financial ratios as predictors of failures: Empirical research in accounting selected studies
The Journal of Accounting Research , volume 4 , p. 71 - 111 Posted: 1966
W H Beaver
Market prices, financial ratios, and the prediction of failure
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 170 - 192 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A Charitou , Charalambous Neophytou
Predicting corporate failure: Empirical evidence for the UK
European Accounting Review , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 465 - 497 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,013
RANK
208,776
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies