Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information in Financial Contracting: The Incomplete Contract Theory Perspective

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 54, No. 2, 2016

Posted: 15 Jul 2016

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Regina Wittenberg Moerman

Northwestern University

Valeri V. Nikolaev

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper reviews theoretical and empirical work on financial contracting that is relevant to accounting researchers. Its primary objective is to discuss how the use of accounting information in contracts enhances contracting efficiency and to suggest avenues for future research. We argue that incomplete contract theory broadens our understanding of both the role accounting information plays in contracting and the mechanisms through which efficiency gains are achieved. By discussing its rich theoretical implications, we expect incomplete contract theory to prove useful in motivating future research and in offering directions to advance our knowledge of how accounting information affects contract efficiency.

Keywords: financial contracting, incomplete contracts, accounting-based covenants, control allocation, contracting on accounting information

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde and Wittenberg Moerman, Regina and Nikolaev, Valeri V., Accounting Information in Financial Contracting: The Incomplete Contract Theory Perspective (May 1, 2016). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 54, No. 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2809322
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies