Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure and Earnings Asymmetric Timeliness

Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 16-04

47 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2016 Last revised: 15 Jan 2019

Michael Dambra

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Date Written: January 14, 2019

Abstract

Managers’ voluntary disclosure of forward-looking earnings information results in stock prices reflecting that information prior to the fiscal period when the corresponding earnings are announced. We predict that forward-looking management earnings forecasts (MFs) will lead to a weaker relation between contemporaneous returns and earnings, resulting in a predictable attenuation in earnings asymmetric timeliness measured using the Basu (1997) model (and related models). The intuition is that forward-looking disclosures such as MFs decouple the period in which prices reflect the earnings news from the future period in which the actual earnings related to the forecast will be recognized and announced. We find that earnings’ asymmetric timeliness is insignificant for firms issuing MFs of future-year earnings. Additional analysis rules out the alternative explanation that these findings are due to differences in the pattern of earnings recognition or total information flow in periods with forward-looking disclosures. An implication of our findings is that, in the presence of forward-looking managerial disclosures such as MFs, research on conservatism should exercise caution when attributing variation in asymmetric timeliness exclusively to the hypothesized determinants of conservatism.

Keywords: asymmetric timeliness of earnings, voluntary disclosure, management earnings forecasts, conservatism

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Dambra, Michael and Schonberger, Bryce and Wasley, Charles E., Voluntary Disclosure and Earnings Asymmetric Timeliness (January 14, 2019). Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 16-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811265 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2811265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Anwer Ahmed , S , Scott Duellman
Accounting Conservatism and Board of Director Characteristics: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText Posted: 2007
Crossref
Kamran Ahmed , John K Courtis
Associations between Corporate Characteristics and Disclosure Levels in Annual Reports: A Meta-Analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Carol Anilowski , Mei Feng , Douglas J Skinner
Does Earnings Guidance Affect Market Returns? The Nature and Information Content of Aggregate Earnings Guidance
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 44 , issue 2 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The Role of Accruals in Asymmetrically Timely Gain and Loss Recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,431
RANK
213,039
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies