Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Missing Link? How Selection Effects Shape Evidence on the Market Benefits of Mandatory IFRS Adoption

54 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2016 Last revised: 21 Apr 2018

Joerg-Markus Hitz

University of Tübingen

Sebastian Kaumanns

University of Goettingen

Nico Lehmann

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: April 12, 2018

Abstract

Since 2005, the year of mandatory application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in many jurisdictions worldwide, the number of listed firms in these countries has been on the decline, compared to non-IFRS jurisdictions. We posit that this decrease is, among other things, consistent with regulatory avoidance by specific firms that opt to leave regulated stock exchanges and hence the IFRS mandate due to unfavorable cost-benefit tradeoffs. These firm reactions to the regulation likely create a selection effect in studies that investigate economic outcomes of mandatory IFRS adoption. For a global sample of firms, we find evidence in line with systematic opt outs from IFRS. Conducting a cross-country study of the effects of mandatory IFRS adoption on liquidity, we then corroborate previous evidence of liquidity effects, which are clustered in countries that installed enforcement mechanisms concurrent with the IFRS mandate. However, when we incorporate the predicted treatment selection effect into our model, we show that our treatment selection effect explains liquidity findings in the post IFRS period beyond the commonly documented IFRS, EU, and enforcement variation. Taken together, our findings provide a new perspective on the effects of mandatory IFRS adoption by shedding light on a novel “causal path” from mandatory IFRS adoption to positive market outcomes.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS adoption, delistings, downlistings, oupt-outs, sample selection, correlated omitted variable, Worldscope

JEL Classification: C52, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hitz, Joerg-Markus and Kaumanns, Sebastian and Lehmann, Nico, A Missing Link? How Selection Effects Shape Evidence on the Market Benefits of Mandatory IFRS Adoption (April 12, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2816616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2816616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Abadie
Semiparametric Difference-in-Differences Estimators
Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J B R Aharony , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Y Amhud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,337
RANK
187,924
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies