Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dissecting Characteristics Nonparametrically

105 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2016 Last revised: 5 Aug 2018

Joachim Freyberger

University of Wisconsin-Madison; University of Bonn

Andreas Neuhierl

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr School of Business, Purdue University

Michael Weber

National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

There are 6 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 26, 2018

Abstract

We propose a nonparametric method to study which characteristics provide incremental information for the cross-section of expected returns. We use the adaptive group LASSO to select characteristics and to estimate how they affect expected returns nonparametrically. Our method can handle a large number of characteristics, allows for a flexible functional form, and our implementation is insensitive to outliers. Many of the previously identified return predictors don’t provide incremental information for expected returns, and nonlinearities are important. We study the properties of our method in simulations and find large improvements both in model selection and prediction compared to alternative selection methods.

Keywords: Cross Section of Returns, Anomalies, Expected Returns, Model Selection

JEL Classification: C14, C52, C58, G12

Suggested Citation:

Freyberger, Joachim and Freyberger, Joachim and Neuhierl, Andreas and Weber, Michael, Dissecting Characteristics Nonparametrically (July 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2820700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2820700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A.-M Anderson , E A Dyl
Market structure and trading volume
Journal of Financial Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 131 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C S Asness , A Frazzini , R Israel , T J Moskowitz , L H Pedersen
Size matters, if you control your junk
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,602
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,024
RANK
7,533
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies