Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Comparing Cash Flow and Accrual Accounting Models for Use in Equity Valuation

23 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2001

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2001

Abstract

A claim is commonly made that cash and accrual accounting methods for valuing equities must always yield equivalent valuations. A recent paper by Lundholm and O'Keefe (Contemporary Accounting Research, Summer, 2001), for example, claims that, because of this equivalence, there is nothing to be learned from empirical comparison of valuation models. So they dismiss recent research that has shown that accrual accounting residual income models and earnings capitalization models perform, over a range of conditions, better than cash flow or dividend discount models. This paper demonstrates, with examples, that the claim is misquided. Practice inevitably involves forecasting over finite,truncated horizons and the accounting specified in a model - cash versus accrual accounting in particular - is pertinent to valuation with finite horizon forecasting. Indeed, the issue of choosing a valuation model is an issue of specifying pro forma accounting, and so, for finite horizon forecasts, one cannot be indifferent to the accounting.

Keywords: Equity valuation; Dividend discounting; Discounted cash flow; Accrual accounting

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Penman, Stephen H., On Comparing Cash Flow and Accrual Accounting Models for Use in Equity Valuation (August 2001). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=282421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.282421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R Brief , R Lawson
The role of the accounting rate of return in financial statement analysis
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , p. 411 - 426 Posted: 1992-04
T Copeland , T Koller , J Murrin
Valuation: Measuring and Managing the Value of Companies , volume 3 Posted: 2000
L Courteau , J Kao , G Richardson
Equity valuation employing the ideal versus ad hoc terminal value expressions
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Dutta , S Reichelstein
Asset valuation and performance measurement in a dynamic agency model
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 4 , p. 235 - 258 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,678
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,886
RANK
3,361
6 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies