Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of International Income Shifting to U.S. Multinational Firms

51 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2016 Last revised: 3 Jun 2020

Paul Demere

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Jeffrey Gramlich

Carson College of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

We examine the value to U.S. multinational firms of shifting income from high- to low-tax jurisdictions. Such shifting is common and sizable, yet the shareholder consequences are heretofore unknown. Using a novel income shifting measure and identification strategy from Demeré and Gramlich (2020), we find that, on average, a one percent increase in income shifting incentives is associated with a 0.5 percent firm value discount. Both shifting income between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions and shifting income between foreign jurisdictions result in firm value discounts. U.S.–foreign income shifting appears to impair firm value through myopic uses of income shifting, while foreign–foreign income shifting appears to impair firm value through managerial rent extraction. These results suggest a fundamental difference in the nature and motivations of different types of income shifting.

Keywords: Income Shifting, Corporate Income Tax, Firm Value, Managerial Rent Extraction

JEL Classification: F38, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Demere, Paul and Gramlich, Jeffrey, The Value of International Income Shifting to U.S. Multinational Firms (June 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2826132 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2826132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
433
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,642
RANK
153,959
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies