Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Long-term Growth Forecasts and Market Efficiency with Respect to the Innovative Efficiency of R&D-Intensive Firms

65 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2016 Last revised: 25 Oct 2021

Jeff Zeyun Chen

Texas Christian University

Philip B. Shane

College of William & Mary - Raymond A. Mason School of Business

Liu Yang

University of Miami

Joseph Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 23, 2021

Abstract

Prior research finds that investors have difficulty pricing corporate innovation. This paper investigates the role of long-term growth (LTG) forecasting financial analysts in the efficiency of stock prices and consensus sell-side analyst forecasts with respect to information about firms’ innovative efficiency (IE). Our first set of analyses reveal that underreaction to IE-related information dissipates for firms with LTG forecasts. Our second set of analyses further indicate that the credibility of LTG forecasts is crucial for them to influence the stock market and analyst forecast efficiency with respect to IE-related information. This result holds after we control for the quality of other research outputs published by LTG-forecasting analysts. Furthermore, conditional on the existence of other long-term analyst forecasts, we continue to find strong evidence consistent with LTG forecasts facilitating market pricing of IE. Collectively, our results support the notion that credible LTG forecasts serve as effective information channels for enhancing market efficiency with respect to IE-related information.

Keywords: Innovation, Patents, Long-term growth, Analysts’ forecasts, Market efficiency

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jeff Zeyun and Shane, Philip B. and Yang, Liu and Zhang, Joseph, Long-term Growth Forecasts and Market Efficiency with Respect to the Innovative Efficiency of R&D-Intensive Firms (May 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2847334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2847334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
P Asquith , D W Mullins
Signalling with dividends, stock repurchases, and equity issues
Financial Management , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 27 - 44 Posted: 1986
B Barber , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Comparing the stock recommendation performance of investment banks and independent research firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 490 - 517 Posted: 2007
R Barniv , O.-K Hope , M J Myring , W B Thomas
Do analysts practice what they preach and should investors listen? Effects of recent regulations
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 4 , p. 1015 - 1039 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,032
RANK
287,617
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies