Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distrust in Experts and the Origins of Disagreement

Journal of Economic Theory, Forthcoming

89 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2016 Last revised: 20 Dec 2021

Ing-Haw Cheng

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Alice Hsiaw

Brandeis University - International Business School

Date Written: November 18, 2021

Abstract

Why do individuals interpret the same information differently? We propose that individuals form beliefs following Bayes' Rule with one exception: when assessing the credibility of experts, they double-dip the data and use already-updated beliefs instead of their priors. This "pre-screening" mechanism explains why individuals jointly disagree about states of the world and the credibility of experts, why the ordering of signals and experts affects final beliefs, and when individuals over- or underreact to new information. In a trading game, pre-screening generates excessive speculation, bubbles, and crashes. Our theory provides a micro-foundation for why individuals disagree about how to interpret the same data.

Keywords: disagreement, polarization, learning, speculation, bubbles

JEL Classification: D91, D83, G41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Ing-Haw and Hsiaw, Alice, Distrust in Experts and the Origins of Disagreement (November 18, 2021). Journal of Economic Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2864563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2864563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Dilip Abreu , Markus K Brunnermeier
Bubbles and Crashes
Econometrica , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2003
Daron Acemoglu , Victor Chernozhukov , Muhamet Yildiz
Fragility of Asymptotic Agreement under Bayesian Learning
Theoretical Economics , volume 11 , p. 187 - 227 Posted: 2016
Murray Aitkin
Posterior Bayes Factors
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series B , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 142 Posted: 1991
Norman Anderson
Primacy effects in Personality Impression Formation Using a Generalized Order Effect Paradigm
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 1965
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
763
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,222
RANK
75,708
1 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies