Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crowdsourcing Intelligent Research Participants: A Student versus MTurk Comparison

Posted: 16 Dec 2016 Last revised: 29 Jun 2018

Steve Buchheit

University of Alabama

Derek W. Dalton

Clemson University - Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business

Troy Pollard

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Shane Stinson

University of Alabama

Date Written: June 5, 2018

Abstract

The use of online workers as research participants has grown in recent years, prompting interest in how online workers compare to traditional accounting research participants. To date, no study has compared the relative intelligence of online workers to student subjects. Such a comparison may be important to behavioral accounting researchers given the homogeneity and high mental ability of accounting students relative to online workers. While graduate students perform better than both undergraduate and MTurk participants on common intelligence tests, we find that MTurk participants are not low-quality in terms of their reasoning skills. Across two reasonably complex tasks, we find that task performance for MTurk participants is similar to undergraduate accounting students, providing incremental assurance that MTurk participants are suitable subjects when accounting expertise is not explicitly required. We also provide evidence that screening MTurk participants on intelligence scores may benefit researchers who require participants with relatively high cognitive ability.

Keywords: MTurk, online subjects, experimental participants, Amazon Mechanical Turk

JEL Classification: C83, C99, M40

Suggested Citation:

Buchheit, Steve and Dalton, Derek W. and Pollard, Troy and Stinson, Shane, Crowdsourcing Intelligent Research Participants: A Student versus MTurk Comparison (June 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2885940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2885940
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,792
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies