Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Maximizing the Contribution of JDM-Style Experiments in Accounting

38 Pages Posted: 24 Dec 2016 Last revised: 26 Dec 2016

Kathryn Kadous

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Yuepin (Daniel) Zhou

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 7, 2016

Abstract

This paper considers the use of Judgment and Decision Making (JDM) experiments in accounting. It begins with a description of the purpose and goal of JDM experiments in accounting. The bulk of the paper discusses critical issues in designing and implementing JDM-style experiments. Our primary goal is to provide advice about designing and implementing JDM-style experiments in ways that will maximize a study’s likelihood of success and its contribution to the accounting literature. We identify five steps that will help JDM researchers identify meaningful research questions and address them in ways that allow generalization to the problem of interest and beyond. A key theme is that impactful research requires significant planning and pre-work.

Keywords: Judgment and Decision Making, Experiments, Methodology

JEL Classification: C91, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kadous, Kathryn and Zhou, Yuepin, Maximizing the Contribution of JDM-Style Experiments in Accounting (October 7, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2887033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2887033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
602
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,128
RANK
102,764
9 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies