Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Twin Momentum: Fundamental Trends Matter

50 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2017 Last revised: 7 Jun 2021

Dashan Huang

Singapore Management University - Lee Kong Chian School of Business

Huacheng Zhang

University of Edinburgh Business School

Guofu Zhou

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: January 7, 2019

Abstract

Using trends in firm fundamentals, we find that there is a fundamental momentum in the stock market. Buying stocks in the top quintile of fundamental trends and selling stocks in the bottom earns a monthly average return of 0.85%, comparable to price momentum. Combining both price and fundamental momentum produces a twin momentum, which earns an average return that exceeds their sum and is difficult to explain by short-sell impediments. Our results not only support the view that fundamental analysis is as important as technical analysis, but also indicate that trends contain incremental information beyond often used lagged fundamental predictors.

Keywords: Price momentum, Fundamental momentum, Twin momentum, Information diffusion, Sticky expectation

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Dashan and Zhang, Huacheng and Zhou, Guofu, Twin Momentum: Fundamental Trends Matter (January 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2894068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2894068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
F Akbas , C Jiang , P D Kock
The trend in firm profitability and the cross-section of stock returns
Accounting Review , volume 92 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , E Bartov , L Faurel
Post loss/profit announcement drift
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , J Gerakos , J T Linnainmaa , V Nikolaev
Accruals, cash flows, and operating profitability in the cross section of stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 28 - 45 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,587
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,769
RANK
3,463
5 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies