Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing for Control System Interdependence with Structural Equation Modeling: A Research Note with the Levers of Control (LOC) Framework As Example

27 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2017

Tobias Johansson

Örebro University - School of Business

Date Written: January 31, 2017

Abstract

This research note deals with how to test for and evaluate interdependence among control elements that are jointly determined (a system) using structural equation modeling (SEM). Empirical research on the levers of control (LOC) frame work is used as example. In LOC-research a path model approach to interdependence has been developed. The appropriateness of this method is evaluated and in the article I instead develop SEM models that implement seemingly unrelated regression (SUR) and test them on a data set of 120 SBUs in Sweden. The empirical results suggest that modeling interdependence among control practices in a system as paths, instead of residual correlations, evidently underestimates the strength of interdependence.

Keywords: Structural equation modeling, Management control, Control system, Levers of control, Interdependence, Seemingly unrelated regression, Diagnostic control, Interactive control

Suggested Citation:

Johansson, Tobias, Testing for Control System Interdependence with Structural Equation Modeling: A Research Note with the Levers of Control (LOC) Framework As Example (January 31, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2908711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2908711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M A Abernethy , H C Dekker , A K D Schulz
Are employee selection and incentive contracts complements or substitutes?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 633 - 668 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Arora , A Gambardella
Complementarity and External Linkages: The Strategies of the Large Firms in
Biotechnology. Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 38 , p. 361 - 79 Posted: 1990
Crossref
B ; L Arrunada , L Garicano , Vasquez
Contractual Allocation of Decision Rights and Incentives: The Case of Automobile Distribution
Economics and Organization , volume 17 , p. 257 - 84 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D S Bedford
Management control systems across different modes of innovation: Implications for firm performance
Management Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 12 - 30 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
384,900
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies