Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Firm Performance on Modeling Earnings Management Behaviour

Forthcoming, Academy of Taiwan Business Management Review

7 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2017

Lan Sun

CQUniversity (Australia)

Date Written: February 6, 2017

Abstract

Since the middle 1980s, discretionary accruals have become the primarily focus in modelling earnings management. While the Jones and Modified Jones models attempt to control for contemporaneous performance, empirical assessments of these models suggest that estimated discretionary accruals are significantly influenced by a firm’s contemporaneous and past performance (Kothari, 2005). In this paper, we formally derived the relation between firm performance and accruals. We show that the evolvement of different models and demonstrate why firm performance should be controlled when estimating discretionary accruals. Using a sample of ASX listed firms with 5,947 firm-year observations from the period of 1999 to 2006, we estimate discretionary accruals based on Jones Model, Modified Jones Model, Cash Flow Modified Jones Model and Performance Adjusted Technique. The results show that Performance Adjusted technique tends to adjust the effect of performance on estimated discretionary accruals by removing the measurement in discretionary accruals that correlated with earnings performance and therefore improve the reliability of further detection of earnings management.

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Lan, The Effect of Firm Performance on Modeling Earnings Management Behaviour (February 6, 2017). Forthcoming, Academy of Taiwan Business Management Review , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2912639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,012
RANK
203,475
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies