Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the Statistical Power and Reliability of Research Using Amazon Mechanical Turk

41 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2017 Last revised: 11 Jan 2021

Jeremiah W. Bentley

University of Oklahoma - School of Accounting

Date Written: December 29, 2020

Abstract

Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) is an increasingly popular source of experimental subjects for accounting research due to its convenience and low cost (relative to traditional laboratories). However, MTurk presents challenges related to statistical power and reliability. These challenges are not unique to MTurk, but are more prevalent than in research conducted with other participant pools. In this paper I discuss several reasons why research conducted with MTurk may face additional power and reliability challenges. I then present suggestions for dealing with these challenges, taking advantage of the comparative strengths of MTurk. The discussion should be of interest to PhD students and other researchers considering using MTurk or other online platforms as a source of experimental participants as well as to reviewers and editors who are considering quality control standards for research conducted with this participant pool.

Keywords: Amazon Mechanical Turk; MTurk; AMT; Effect Size; Sample Size; Screening

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, C18, C90, C91

Suggested Citation:

Bentley, Jeremiah W., Improving the Statistical Power and Reliability of Research Using Amazon Mechanical Turk (December 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2924876 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2924876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
E Aronson , P Ellsworth , J Carlsmith , M Gonzales
Methods of research in social psychology Posted: 1990
H S Asay
Horizon-induced optimism as a gateway to earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2018
Crossref
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K Rennekamp
Disclosure readability and the sensitivity of investors' valuation judgments to outside information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
Crossref
H S Asay , J Hales
Disclaiming the future: Investigating the impact of cautionary disclaimers on investor judgments before and after experiencing economic loss. The Accounting Review (forthcoming Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
771
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,575
RANK
74,661
25 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies