Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deception in Management Accounting Experimental Research: “A Tricky Issue” Revisited

Posted: 6 Mar 2017

Theresa Libby

Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting - University of Central Florida

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: February 22, 2017

Abstract

Management accounting scholars generally accept the proposition that our subject matter requires a multi-disciplinary approach to study. The question of what are appropriate norms for conducting research in that environment is not as clear as it may be in more homogenous research communities. One research methods issue that has become more controversial in recent years in our literature is the appropriateness of the experimenter deceiving experimental participants. Broadly speaking there are two main positions about experimental deception: from a psychology perspective “deception if necessary” and from an experimental economics perspective “deception should be banned.” Our goal is to deepen and develop a common understanding within the management accounting research community about what constitutes deceptive research practices. We review the viewpoints and arguments supporting the views of the two base disciplines and the transfer of their norms to management accounting research. We develop a framework for analyzing the need for and potential consequences of using deception in management accounting research. Our analysis implies the need for careful case-by-case consideration, ex ante by researchers and ex post by journal editors, of experiments employing deception in light of the considerations raised in this article. In the longer run, our analysis suggests that the management accounting research community may need to consider if a more explicit policy statement on the role of deception in management accounting research is warranted or whether a case-by-case approach as advocated by us as an interim measure is sufficient.

Keywords: deception in research, debriefing, human subjects research, management accounting

JEL Classification: M40, C70, C91

Suggested Citation:

Libby, Theresa and Salterio, Steven E., Deception in Management Accounting Experimental Research: “A Tricky Issue” Revisited (February 22, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2927226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2927226
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,895
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies