Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Barriers to Transferring Accounting and Auditing Research to Standard Setters

51 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2017

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Jim Sylph

Independent

Date Written: February 6, 2017

Abstract

Auditing (accounting) researchers have published over 24,000 (75,000) academic articles (Google Scholar September 2016) using a variety of research methods since 1970. Yet accounting and auditing standard setters and regulators have frequently cited their inability to engage with and utilize this research to make evidence-informed standard setting and regulatory decisions. For society to benefit from the large research investment in accounting and auditing, the knowledge gained from that research needs to be transferred to such accounting and auditing policymakers. We draw conceptually on the knowledge creation and knowledge transfer literature to understand the barriers to utilizing academic research knowledge in applied settings. Based on this conceptual material, we then examine what the evidence-based policy and management movement holds up as the paradigmatic example of such knowledge transfer – evidence-based medicine (EBM). In particular, we focus on EBM knowledge translation approaches related to the development of evidence-based guidelines, treatment protocols and best practices. Researchers in medicine, management and policy have studied these approaches extensively and these approaches are current best practice examples of how to meet the knowledge transfer challenge that will allow the deployment of research by those who have need of it. Through this analysis of knowledge transfer theory and practice in other settings, we seek to understand and propose a tentative strategy to address the barriers between accounting and auditing research knowledge and policymaking. We provide a concrete example, based on our research in progress, of how to apply this approach to knowledge transfer in the context of a specific standard setting project – group audits.

Keywords: accounting and auditng standard setting, knowledge transfer, barriers, evidence-based medicine.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, G28, K23

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Kris and Salterio, Steven E. and Sylph, Jim, Barriers to Transferring Accounting and Auditing Research to Standard Setters (February 6, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928450 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2928450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
J Abramson , B Starfield
The effect of conflict of interest on biomedical research and clinical practice guidelines: Can we trust the evidence in Evidence-Based Medicine
The Journal of the American Board of Family Practice , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 414 - 418 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P E Alexander , J P Brito , I Neumann , M R Gionfriddo , L Bero , B Djulbegovic , R Stoltzfus , V M Montori , S L Norris , H J Schünemann , G H Guyatt
World Health Organization strong recommendations based on low-quality evidence (study quality) are frequent and often inconsistent with Grade guidance
Journal of Clinical Epidemiology , volume 72 , p. 98 - 106 Posted: 2016
Crossref
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115
Accounting Horizons , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 189 - 200 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ammerman , T W Smith , L Calancie
Practice-Based Evidence in Public Health: Improving Reach, Relevance, and Results
Annual Review of Public Health , volume 35 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,660
RANK
284,107
5 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies