Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Data Techniques in Auditing Research and Practice: Current Trends and Future Opportunities

Journal of Accounting Literature, Volume 40, June 2018, Pages 102-115

42 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2017 Last revised: 11 Feb 2018

Adrian Gepp

Bond University - Bond Business School

Martina Linnenluecke

University of Queensland - Business School

Terry O'Neill

Bond University - Faculty of Business, Technology and Sustainable Development

Tom Smith

University of Queensland - Faculty of Business, Economics and Law; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: March 7, 2017

Abstract

This paper analyzes the use of big data techniques in auditing and finds it not as widespread as it is in other related fields. We first introduce contemporary big data techniques to promote understanding of their potential application. Next, we review existing research on big data in accounting and finance. In addition to auditing, our analysis shows that existing research extends across three other genealogies: financial distress modelling, financial fraud modelling, and stock market prediction and quantitative modelling. Auditing is lagging behind the other research streams in the use of valuable big data techniques. A possible explanation is that auditors are reluctant to use techniques that are far ahead of those adopted by their clients, but we refute this argument. We call for more research and a greater alignment to practice. We also outline future opportunities for auditing in the context of real-time information and in collaborative platforms and peer-to-peer marketplaces.

Keywords: Auditing, Big Data, Data Analytics, Statistical Techniques

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Gepp, Adrian and Linnenluecke, Martina and O'Neill, Terry and Smith, Tom M., Big Data Techniques in Auditing Research and Practice: Current Trends and Future Opportunities (March 7, 2017). Journal of Accounting Literature, Volume 40, June 2018, Pages 102-115, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2930767 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2930767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
A Abbasi , C Albrecht , A Vance , J Hansen
Metafraud: A meta-learning framework for detecting financial fraud
MIS Quarterly , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1293 - 1327 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Frank Acito , Vijay Khatri
Business analytics: Why now and what next?
Business Horizons , volume 57 , issue 5 , p. 565 - 570 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 59: The Auditor's Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Posted: 1988
Omnibus Statement on Auditing Standards; No. 124, Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance With a Financial Reporting Framework Generally Accepted in Another Country
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos , p. 122 - 124 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,967
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,772
RANK
19,117
9 Citations
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies