Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cameral Accounting and Cash Flow Reporting: Some Implications for Use of the Direct or Indirect Method

Posted: 21 Jan 2002

Norvald Monsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Abstract

The most thoroughly debated format issue in designing a cash flow statement for a business enterprise concerns use of the direct or indirect method when reporting cash from operating activities. The article argues that the reason why we cannot solve this dilemma of using the direct or indirect method is related to the fact that our discussion is limited to using the axiom of double-entry bookkeeping within commercial accounting. In this article, however, the discussion of whether to use the direct or indirect method is not limited to commercial double-entry bookkeeping; it is also based upon another accounting framework, specifically designed to deal with cash transactions of governmental organizations: single-entry cameral accounting. The article argues that commercial accounting could learn from cameral accounting, separating cash from noncash balance sheet changes, and directly prepare a cash flow statement from the single-entries of the cash transactions on the cash account, before they are entered into the double-entry bookkeeping system, to provide a performance result (revenues minus expenses) and related balance sheet information (assets, liabilities and equity). By applying this procedure, the direct method of preparing a cash flow statement becomes the natural method to use.

Keywords: Cash flow accounting; Cash flow statements; Direct and indirect methods; Single- and double-entry bookkeeping; Cameral accounting; Commercial (accrual) accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M46

Suggested Citation:

Monsen, Norvald, Cameral Accounting and Cash Flow Reporting: Some Implications for Use of the Direct or Indirect Method. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=293099
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,310
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies