Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Accounting Databases on WRDS: Comparative Analysis

42 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2017

Rui Dai

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS); The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen (CUHK-Shenzhen)

Date Written: March 12, 2012

Abstract

While multiple data vendors have claimed to offer a comprehensive international coverage of accounting and financial items for firms worldwide, there is a growing demand for better understanding of the differences across international databases. This paper compares several international accounting databases on WRDS to address this traditional obstacle confronting empirical researchers. I document important issues on the data coverage at the firm and country level, the sample overlap, and the discrepancies in coverage of various data items for FactSet Fundamentals, Compustat Global, and Bureau Van Dijk’s international databases. The main conclusions are threefold: 1) Compustat Global features greater coverage of large companies in more developed countries and provides a wider range of accounting data items than any other databases; 2) BvD Osiris offers lesser variety of accounting data items, but it also contains a higher number of small firms from developing countries; 3) finally, FactSet Fundamentals Database provides a balance in the firm size and quantity of accounting items with a reasonable geographical coverage.

Keywords: International Finance Databases

JEL Classification: F30, C55

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Rui, International Accounting Databases on WRDS: Comparative Analysis (March 12, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938675 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2938675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
P Alves , W Beekes , S Young
A Comparison of Uk Firms' Financial Statement Data from Six Sources Posted: 2007
Eugene F Fama , Kenneth R French
Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and Bonds
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 56 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Ozgur S Ince , R Burt Porter
Individual Equity Return Data from Thomson Datastream: Handle with Care!
Journal of Financial Research , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 463 - 79 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Beth B Kern , Michael H Morris
Differences in the Compustat and Expanded Value Line Databases and the Potential Impact on Empirical Research
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 274 - 84 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,929
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,169
RANK
19,733
17 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies