Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining Returns through Valuation

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-38

57 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2017 Last revised: 27 Oct 2019

Erik Johannesson

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

James A. Ohlson

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 23, 2019

Abstract

This paper develops an analytically coherent yet parsimonious framework which explains market returns in terms of contemporaneous information. It anchors on the idea that valuation (static perspective) can be connected to the dynamics that explains returns, and vice versa. The framework requires two components. First, an explicit function that maps information to an estimate of value—a valuation heuristic. Second, the framework assumes that the difference between a firm’s actual value and value-per-heuristic follows an autoregressive stochastic process with a contraction parameter but no intercept. The contraction parameter can be estimated efficiently and non-parametrically. This modelling suffices to correlate implied returns with realized returns. Using scaled EPS forecasts as valuation heuristics, we empirically evaluate the framework’s validity and robustness. Its explanatory power compares favorably to that of traditional OLS regressions, despite only requiring a single parameter. In a setting with pooled annual data, the implied and realized returns correlations are 73% and 64%, respectively.

Keywords: market returns, valuation, goodness-of-fit, valuation gap, ARF, autoregressive framework, parsimony

JEL Classification: M1, M41, G32, G12

Suggested Citation:

Johannesson, Erik and Ohlson, James A., Explaining Returns through Valuation (October 23, 2019). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2938103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Ali , P Zarowin
The Role of Earnings Levels in Annual Earnings Returns Studies
Journal of accounting research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 286 - 296 Posted: 1992
Crossref
C Bach , P O Christensen
Consumption-based equity valuation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of accounting research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The Market Valuation Implications of Net Periodic Pension Cost Components
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 62 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
712
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,969
RANK
82,779
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies