Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Efficient Estimation of Integrated Volatility Functionals via Multiscale Jackknife

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 17-05

31 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2017 Last revised: 18 Apr 2018

Jia Li

Duke University

Yunxiao Liu

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Dacheng Xiu

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: March 27, 2017

Abstract

We propose semi-parametrically efficient estimators for general integrated volatility functionals of multivariate semimartingale processes. It is known that a plug-in method that uses nonparametric estimates of spot volatilities induces high-order biases which need to be corrected to obey a central limit theorem. Such bias terms arise from boundary effects, the diffusive and jump movements of stochastic volatility, and the sampling error from the nonparametric spot volatility estimation. We propose a novel jackknife method for bias-correction. The jackknife estimator is simply formed as a linear combination of a few uncorrected estimators associated with different local window sizes used in the estimation of spot volatility. We show theoretically that our estimator is asymptotically mixed Gaussian, semi-parametrically efficient, and more robust to the choice of local windows. To facilitate the practical use, we introduce a simulation-based estimator of the asymptotic variance, so that our inference is derivative-free and, hence, is very convenient to implement.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jia and Liu, Yunxiao and Xiu, Dacheng, Efficient Estimation of Integrated Volatility Functionals via Multiscale Jackknife (March 27, 2017). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 17-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2942235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2942235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Y A¨ıta¨ıt-Sahalia , D Xiu
Principal component analysis of high frequency data Posted: 2015
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , P Labys
Modeling and forecasting realized volatility
Econometrica , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 579 - 625 Posted: 2003
Crossref
O E Barndorff-Nielsen , N Shephard
Econometric analysis of realized covariation: High frequency based covariance, regression, and correlation in financial economics
Econometrica , volume 72 , issue 3 , p. 885 - 925 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Carr , H Geman , D B Madan , M Yor
The fine structure of asset returns: An empirical investigation
Journal of Business , volume 75 , p. 305 - 332 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
RANK
514,660
12 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies