Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multi-Method Evidence on Investors’ Reactions to Managers’ Self-Inclusive Language

Accounting, Organizations, and Society 79: 1-19

61 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2017 Last revised: 16 Jun 2021

Zhenhua Chen

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Serena Loftus

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 30, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the joint effect of managers’ self-inclusive language (SIL) and performance news on investors’ reactions to accounting disclosures. We identify two types of SIL: individual SIL, which includes first-person singular pronouns (e.g., I, me) and collective SIL, which includes first-person plural pronouns (e.g., we, us). When performance news is negative, individual SIL implies that a manager is claiming sole responsibility for the unfavorable event whereas collective SIL and SEL diffuse responsibility. Therefore, we predict higher perceptions of manager credibility for individual SIL relative to collective SIL or self-exclusive language (SEL) when performance news is negative, which, in turn, increase investment judgments. We use a between-subjects experiment to test our predictions. Results show higher perceptions of manager credibility and higher investment judgments for individual SIL relative to collective SIL or SEL when performance news is negative. Results of a maximum likelihood estimation suggest that perceptions of manager credibility mediate the effect of individual SIL on investment judgments, supporting the notion that individual SIL exerts an indirect effect on investment judgments. We supplement experimental evidence with an analysis of managers’ SIL in a large sample of earnings conference calls. We document a positive (negative) market reaction to individual (collective) SIL when performance news is negative, consistent with our hypothesis. We also find a positive market reaction to individual SIL when news is positive. Overall, our study offers multi-method evidence of the impact of a subtle and easily overlooked component of managers’ language on investors’ judgments.

Keywords: Disclosure; Self-Inclusive Language; Pronouns; Investment Decision

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhenhua and Loftus, Serena, Multi-Method Evidence on Investors’ Reactions to Managers’ Self-Inclusive Language (August 30, 2019). Accounting, Organizations, and Society 79: 1-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2950702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2950702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
H S Asay , R Libby , K M Rennekamp
Do features that associate managers with a message magnify investors' reactions to narrative disclosures? Accounting
Organizations and Society , p. 68 - 69 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Asay , B Elliott , K Rennekamp
Disclosure readability and the sensitivity of investors' valuation judgments to outside information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
Crossref
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , W A Hillison
Voluntary causal disclosures: Tendencies and capital market reaction
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting Posted: 2000
Crossref
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
Why do managers explain their earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
13 Citations
Christopher J. Demaline
Disclosure characteristics of firms being investigated by the SEC
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 11 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Hamilton Scott Asay , Robert Libby , Kristina M. Rennekamp
Do Features that Associate Managers with a Message Magnify Investors' Reactions to Narrative Disclosures?
46 Pages · Posted: 21 Nov 2013 · Last revised: 8 Feb 2018 · Downloads: 703
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeremiah W. Bentley
Improving the Statistical Power and Reliability of Research Using Amazon Mechanical Turk
41 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2017 · Last revised: 11 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 771
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Katlijn Haesebrouck
The Effects of Information Acquisition Effort, Psychological Ownership, and Reporting Context on Opportunistic Managerial Reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 15 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 10 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 176
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,825
RANK
139,359
13 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies