Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Defining, Measuring and Modeling Accruals: A Guide for Researchers

62 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2017 Last revised: 28 Mar 2018

Chad R. Larson

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Richard G. Sloan

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Jenny Zha Giedt

George Washington University - School of Business

Date Written: January 11, 2018

Abstract

Research on accounting accruals is pervasive. Yet the measurement and modeling of accruals has developed in an ad hoc manner, resulting in a fragmented and incomplete body of research. Our goal is to rectify this situation by (i) providing a comprehensive definition of accruals, (ii) formulating a corresponding empirical measure of accruals, (iii) offering two decompositions of our measure of accruals that encapsulate the major classes of accruals studied in previous research, (iv) combining and expanding prior models of the fundamental determinants of accruals into one parsimonious model, and (v) identifying the primary determinants of each of the major classes of accruals. We close by providing guidance for researchers in tailoring the selection of accruals to the research question at hand.

Keywords: Accruals, Cash Flows, Earnings

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Larson, Chad Russell and Sloan, Richard G. and Zha Giedt, Jenny, Defining, Measuring and Modeling Accruals: A Guide for Researchers (January 11, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2952601 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2952601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
47 Citations
Maureen F. McNichols , Stephen Stubben
Research Design Issues in Studies Using Discretionary Accruals
32 Pages · Posted: 7 May 2018 · Downloads: 520
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahmad A. Toumeh
The Influence of Enterprise Resource Planning System Implementation on Accrual-Based Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence from Jordan
Global Business Review Posted: 2022
Crossref
Ahmad A. Toumeh
New Perspectives and Paradigms in Applied Economics and Business
, p. 157 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Jeff L. McMullin , Bryce Schonberger
Entropy-Balanced Accruals
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming · 63 Pages · Posted: 29 Jan 2015 · Last revised: 27 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 1,399
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,714
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,821
RANK
23,656
47 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies