Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovative Accounting Interviewing: A Comparison of Real and Virtual Accounting Interviewers

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2017 Last revised: 8 Nov 2019

Matthew Pickard

Assistant Professor of Accounting Data and Analytics

Ryan M. Schuetzler

Brigham Young University - Department of Information Systems

Joseph Valacich

University of Arizona

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 6, 2019

Abstract

Recent technological advances have made it possible to create automated, virtual interviewers, called embodied conversational agents (ECAs). We study how an ECA compares to a human interviewer in three experiments. In experiment 1, we show that two theoretically motivated factors—making the ECA facially and vocally similar to the interviewee—result in the ECA performing similarly to or better than human interviewers for six antecedents of disclosure quality. In two additional experiments, we show that employees are on average between 21 and 32 percent more likely to disclose violating internal controls to an ECA than to a human interviewer, even if the human interviewer has significant interviewing experience. These findings contribute to the ECA design literature by showing that similarity-enhancing features of ECAs increase the antecedents of disclosure. The findings also contribute to the accounting literature by demonstrating that ECA technology can increase the scope of interviewing in accounting without reducing interview quality.

Keywords: Interviewing, Virtual Agents, Embodied Conversational Agents, Self-Disclosure

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, C8, C88

Suggested Citation:

Pickard, Matthew and Schuetzler, Ryan and Valacich, Joseph and Wood, David A., Innovative Accounting Interviewing: A Comparison of Real and Virtual Accounting Interviewers (November 6, 2019). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2959693 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2959693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
M Akhtaruddin , H Haron
Board ownership, audit committees' effectiveness and corporate voluntary disclosures
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 82 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J N Bailenson , S Iyengar , N Yee , N A Collins
Facial similarity between voters and candidates causes influence
Public Opinion Quarterly , volume 72 , issue 5 , p. 935 - 961 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J N Bailenson , N Yee , D Merget , R Schroeder
The effect of behavioral realism and form realism of real-time avatar faces on verbal disclosure, nonverbal disclosure, emotion recognition, and copresence in dyadic interaction
Presence: Teleoperators & Virtual Environments , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 359 - 372 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J N Bailenson , N Yee , K Patel , A C Beall
Detecting digital chameleons
Computers in Human Behavior , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 87 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,772
RANK
158,049
9 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies