Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Persistence, Earnings Informativeness, and Stock Return Regularities

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2017 Last revised: 24 Nov 2019

Kai Du

Pennsylvania State University

Steven J. Huddart

Pennsylvania State University, University Park - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 17, 2019

Abstract

We propose a simple framework for understanding accounting-based stock return regularities. A firm's accounting reports provide noisy information about hidden economic states that evolve according to a Markov process. In response to the accounting reports, a representative Bayesian investor forms beliefs about the underlying state and hence the value of the firm. For a population of such firms, the model provides predictions consistent with two sets of well-documented regularities: (i) the market reaction to an earnings announcement that ends a string of consecutive earnings increases and (ii) the return predictabilities based on accruals and book-tax differences. The model also yields novel cross-sectional predictions about the distinct roles of economic persistence and earnings informativeness. We confirm these predictions through empirical tests.

Keywords: Economic persistence; Earnings informativeness; Earnings strings; Accruals anomaly; Book-tax differences anomaly

JEL Classification: D83; G12; G14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Du, Kai and Huddart, Steven J., Economic Persistence, Earnings Informativeness, and Stock Return Regularities (April 17, 2019). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2959052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2959052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Adda , R Cooper
Dynamic Economics: Quantitative Methods and Applications Posted: 2003
R Antle , J Demski , S Ryan
Multiple sources of information, valuation, and accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 9 , p. 675 - 696 Posted: 1994
Crossref
B Ayers
Deferred tax accounting under SFAS No. 109: an empirical investigation of its incremental value-relevance relative to APB No
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 11 , p. 195 - 212 Posted: 1998
N Barberis , A Shleifer , R Vishny
A model of investor sentiment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 49 , p. 307 - 345 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,281
RANK
286,433
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies