Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bayesian Analysis of Moving Average Stochastic Volatility Models: Modelling in Mean Effects and Leverage for Financial Time Series

28 Pages Posted: 12 May 2017

Stefanos Dimitrakopoulos

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Michalis Kolossiatis

University of Cyprus; Central Bank of Cyprus

Date Written: May 11, 2017

Abstract

We propose a moving average stochastic volatility in mean model and a moving average stochastic volatility model with leverage. For parameter estimation, we develop efficient Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms and illustrate our methods, using simulated data and a real data set. We compare the proposed specifications against several competing stochastic volatility models, using marginal likelihoods and the observed-data Deviance information criterion. We find that the moving average stochastic volatility model with leverage has better fit to our daily return series than various standard benchmarks.

Keywords: in-mean effects, leverage, Markov chain Monte Carlo, moving average, stochastic volatility

JEL Classification: C11, C13, C58

Suggested Citation:

Dimitrakopoulos, Stefanos and Kolossiatis, Michalis, Bayesian Analysis of Moving Average Stochastic Volatility Models: Modelling in Mean Effects and Leverage for Financial Time Series (May 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2966886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2966886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
C A Abanto-Valle , H S Migon , V H Lachos
Stochastic volatility in mean models with scale mixtures of normal distributions and correlated errors: A Bayesian approach
Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference , volume 141 , p. 1875 - 1887 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G Bekaert , G Wu
Asymmetric volatility and risk in equity markets
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Black
Studies of stock market volatility changes
Proceedings of the American Statistical Association, Business and Economic Studies Section , p. 177 - 181 Posted: 1976
J Y Campbell , L Hentschel
No news is good news: An asymmetric model of changing volatility in stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 31 , p. 281 - 318 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
RANK
521,283
3 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies