Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning from the Joneses: Technology Spillover, Innovation Externality, and Stock Returns

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 13 May 2017 Last revised: 7 Jan 2022

Kevin Tseng

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: January 6, 2022

Abstract

This paper provides empirical evidence for the role of technology spillover, an important innovation externality, in asset pricing. Using patent and R&D data, I show that firms with more technology spillover earn 7.7% higher annualized returns than firms with less technology spillover. Exploiting three quasi-natural experiments, I find that the return effect is strengthened (attenuated) when there is a plausibly exogenous increase (decrease) in the flow of technological information across firms. I also find that firms with more technology spillover have higher cash flow sensitivity to aggregate consumption, numbers of new products, and stock return synchronicity. These findings are consistent with models on learning about new technology; specifically, spillover enables learning about new technology to facilitate timely and large-scale adoption of new technology, which in turn exposes spillover recipients to additional systematic risk. These findings highlight the influence of innovation externality on stock returns.

Keywords: technology spillover, externality, natural experiments, information flow, disclosure, stock returns

JEL Classification: D62, D83, G12, O30, O31, O33

Suggested Citation:

Tseng, Kevin, Learning from the Joneses: Technology Spillover, Innovation Externality, and Stock Returns (January 6, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2967101 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2967101
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
P Aghion , X Jaravel
Knowledge spillovers, innovation and growth
The Economic Journal , volume 125 , issue 583 , p. 533 - 573 Posted: 2015
J B Berk , R C Green , V Naik
Valuation and return dynamics of new ventures
Review of Financial Studies , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2004
N Bloom , C Criscuolo , B Hall , J Van Reenen
Innovation outputs and R&D tax credits: panel data evidence from U.S. firms Posted: 2008
N Bloom , R Griffith , J Van Reenen
Do R&D tax credits work? Evidence from a panel of countries 1979-1997
Journal of Public Economics , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
692
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,463
RANK
85,900
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies