Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Volatility Decay in Time Series Models for Leveraged Exchange Traded Funds

18 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017

Ahmed Abdou

Columbia University, Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research (IEOR), Students

Date Written: June 15, 2017

Abstract

Leverage Exchange Traded Funds (LETF's) returns tend to deviate from their underlying assets' multiple returns as their holding period increase, a phenomenon known as volatility decay. Algebraically, it is shown that volatility decay is intensified for inverse leveraged funds and as the leverage multiplier increases. The paper uses a novel approach to account for volatility decay. The ARIMA model ability to forecast future returns is tested for three major indexes and is shown to provide more accurate estimates for S&P500. The returns of S&P500 and its corresponding LETFs are fitted to an Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model. Theoretically, the constant of the ARIMA model and the variance of their Gaussian errors captures the volatility decay effect. Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (GARCH) models provide more flexibility in modeling conditional variance that is non-stationary. The theoretical results are verified empirically, and the constant of the fitted model captures the intensity of the decay and its direction.

Keywords: ETF, ARIMA, GARCH, Volatility Decay, Forecast, Leveraged ETF

JEL Classification: C22, C52, C53

Suggested Citation:

Abdou, Ahmed, Accounting for Volatility Decay in Time Series Models for Leveraged Exchange Traded Funds (June 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2980208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2980208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
M Avellaneda , S Zhang
Path-dependence of leveraged ETF returns
SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 586 - 603 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T Bollerslev
Generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity
Journal of econometrics , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 307 - 327 Posted: 1986
Crossref
G E P Box , G Jenkins
Time Series Analysis, Forecasting and Control Posted: 1990
Crossref
S Bruno , L Chincarini , R Whitelaw
An alternative method to construct levered indexes
Journal of index investing , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 34 - 47 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,317
RANK
147,101
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies