Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is It Better To Elicit Quantile Or Probability Judgments to Estimate a Continuous Distribution? Elicit Both and Create an Inner Crowd.

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-44

48 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2017 Last revised: 6 May 2021

Asa Palley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Operation & Decision Technologies

Saurabh Bansal

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Date Written: May 6, 2021

Abstract

Managers frequently rely on the judgment of an expert to estimate a probability distribution for a continuous random variable. Two elicitation methods are commonly used to gather this information: (i) quantile judgments for a set of fixed probability values, or (ii) probability judgments based on a set of fixed variable values, but a consensus on which format yields more accurate distribution estimates has not been reached. We report results from a series of eight experiments conducted with 1,456 participants with a range of quantitative backgrounds to compare these elicitation formats for a variety of variables, including synthetically generated numbers displayed in a video, daily high and low temperatures, the ages of people with a given name, commute times, home prices, and household incomes. In total, our data set includes 30,870 complete distribution judgments. The data show that probability distributions constructed from quantile judgments tend to be more accurate than those obtained from cumulative probability judgments. However, visual probability elicitation tools offered similar performance to quantile judgments, with each format holding a slight advantage according to different metrics. On average, quantile judgments were slightly further from the empirical distribution while visual probability judgments were slightly overconfident. We find that averaging the distributions obtained from quantile judgments with those obtained from visual probability judgments provides superior performance to either approach, delivering significantly better accuracy and calibration of confidence intervals. Based on these results, we recommend, when possible, eliciting judgments using both the quantile and visual probability formats and combining the resulting distributions.

Keywords: Elicitation, Subjective Probability Distribution, Expert Judgment, Estimation

JEL Classification: D83, C53, C91

Suggested Citation:

Palley, Asa and Bansal, Saurabh, Is It Better To Elicit Quantile Or Probability Judgments to Estimate a Continuous Distribution? Elicit Both and Create an Inner Crowd. (May 6, 2021). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2981840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2981840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Abbas , D Budescu , H Yu , R Haggerty
A comparison of two probability encoding methods: Fixed probability vs. fixed variable values
Decision Analysis , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 190 - 202 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Akcay , B Biller , S Tayur
Improved inventory targets in the presence of limited historical demand data
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 309 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Q Andre
Posted: 2016
Crossref
T B Arnold , J W Emerson
Nonparametric goodness-of-fit tests for discrete null distributions
R Journal , volume 3 , issue 2 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,281
RANK
229,218
5 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies