Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Clusters, Industry Groups, and Stock Return Correlations

43 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2017

Andy Fodor

Ohio University

Randy D. Jorgensen

Creighton University

John D. Stowe

Ohio University

Date Written: June 14, 2017

Abstract

Investors and analysts classify firms to conduct valuations or to evaluate performance. The industry groupings usually rely on SIC, NAIC, GICS, or Fama-French classifications. Our purpose is to form groups of companies based on the structure of their financial statements. Using cluster analysis, a multivariate tool that can form groups where their characteristics are similar within groups and distinct across groups, we form clusters of large U.S. stocks based on their common size financial statements (percentage breakdowns of balance sheets and income statements). We characterize these financial clusters based on their industry classifications and other economic information and assess the ability of financial clusters and industry groups, separately and jointly, to explain stock return correlations of all pairs of firms. Using financial clusters and industry groups proves superior to using either alone.

Keywords: Stock groups; Industries; Stock return correlations; Common size statements; Cluster analysis; Benchmarks; Financial statement analysis

JEL Classification: G11, G32, L00, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fodor, Andy and Jorgensen, Randy D. and Stowe, John D., Financial Clusters, Industry Groups, and Stock Return Correlations (June 14, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2986610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,972
RANK
145,992
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies