Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Based Valuation: A Simultaneous Equations Model for Forecasting Earnings to Proxy for ‘Other Information’

60 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2017

Iris Bergmann

University of Augsburg

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Date Written: June 10, 2017

Abstract

This paper develops and tests a simultaneous equations model (SEM) for extending accounting based valuation models used in empirical studies. To calculate the ‘other information’ variable in the Ohlson (1995) model, we derive forecasts of operating income from the SEM, rather than using analysts’ forecasts. The SEM forecasts are based on observable data contained in the firms’ reporting, like order backlog, and other publicly available information. The SEM produces more accurate out-of-sample forecasts of operating income compared to simple benchmark models particularly in years around economic changes and instability, like the years 2001 and 2009. Integrating the SEM forecast as ‘other information’ in market value regressions significantly increases the explanatory power compared to simpler versions with or without single information proxies for ‘other information’. The SEM forecast is able to explain a major portion of the information advantage of analysts relevant for explaining market values.

Keywords: accounting based valuation, analysts’ earnings forecasts, Ohlson model, simultaneous equations

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C53

Suggested Citation:

Bergmann, Iris and Schultze, Wolfgang, Accounting Based Valuation: A Simultaneous Equations Model for Forecasting Earnings to Proxy for ‘Other Information’ (June 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2990229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2990229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,670
RANK
434,412
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies