Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Analytics and Performance Management: A Small Data Example Combining TD-ABC and BSC for Simulation and Optimization

23 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2017

Steen Nielsen

Department of Economics and Business Economics

Date Written: May 20, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is twofold: first, it discuss the potentials of combining performance management with the concept and methodology of business analytics. The inspiration for this stems from the intensified discussions and use of business analytics and performance in organizations by both academics and professionals. Second, the paper demonstrates and evaluates the idea of business analytics on a numerical example combining the balanced scorecard and TD-ABC. Four different scenarios are analysed by means of spreadsheet Monte Carlo simulation and optimization to show how such a combination can be made and assess the consequences. The paper shows that in order to be able to fulfill future jobs descriptions; accountants must not only have specific quantitative skills but also creativity and imagination. In addition, the results of the simulation scenarios show the complicated nature of decision making and the careful considerations needed before actually making a decision. For practical implications, the paper establishes some basic ideas for integrating the business analytics methodology for selecting and evaluating accounting problems and it therefore paves the way for analytics performance management approaches.

Keywords: Management Accounting, Business Analytics, Simulation, Balanced Scorecard, Optimization, Time-Driven ABC, Decision Making

Suggested Citation:

Nielsen, Steen, Business Analytics and Performance Management: A Small Data Example Combining TD-ABC and BSC for Simulation and Optimization (May 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2991537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
I Abnor , B Bjerke
Methodology for Creating Business Knowledge, 3 rd Edition Posted: 2009
Crossref
The CFO's New Environment, A Report Prepared by CFO Research Services in Collaboration with ACCA
ACCA Posted: 2009
Accenture
Analytics in Action: Breakthroughs and Barriers on the Journey to ROI Posted: 2013
Crossref
T A Ahrens , C S Chapman
Management accounting as practice Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,413
RANK
221,251
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies