Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calculating Efficiency with Financial Accounting Data: Data Envelopment Analysis for Accounting Researchers

51 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2017 Last revised: 30 Aug 2018

Peter R. Demerjian

School of Accountancy, J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 27, 2018

Abstract

Recent years have seen a preponderance of accounting research using data envelopment analysis (DEA) to measure efficiency. In this study, I examine the calculation of efficiency using DEA, with a focus on large panel datasets of financial accounting data. Using simulation and archival data, I examine three methodological considerations that arise when calculating efficiency with panel data: calculation group size, the choice of calculation group classification, and using subsets of efficiency scores calculated from larger datasets. I find that each of these issues potentially influences the efficiency scores generated by DEA. Based on these methodological issues, I provide evidence and prescriptions to aid researchers using DEA.

Keywords: data envelopment analysis, financial accounting, DEA

JEL Classification: C61, C67, M41

Suggested Citation:

Demerjian, Peter R., Calculating Efficiency with Financial Accounting Data: Data Envelopment Analysis for Accounting Researchers (August 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2995038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
M Abbott , C Doucouliagos
The efficiency of Australian universities: A data envelopment analysis
Economics of Education Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
N Adler , J Berechman
Measuring airport quality from the airlines' viewpoint: An application of data envelopment analysis
Transport Policy , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 171 - 181 Posted: 2001
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Athanassopoulos , E Shale
Assessing the comparative efficiency of higher education institutions in the UK by means of data envelopment analysis
Education Economics , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 134 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
709
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,000
RANK
46,203
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies