Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Disclosure Measurement: An Alternative Approach

Encyclopedia of Information Science and Technology, 4th Edition (pp. 1896-1906)

12 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2017

Md Salah Uddin Rajib

Jahangirnagar University

Md Qutub Uddin Sajib

China University of Geoscience

Date Written: June 25, 2017

Abstract

This chapter conducts the study on the use of text mining for corporate disclosure measurement. During the last few decades, research on corporate disclosure has received significant concentration from the researchers. Corporate disclosure measurement has been used by researchers to reveal the real world scenario of corporate disclosure practice. Very often, the researchers have used content analysis for making comments on the corporate disclosure practice. This chapter investigates the usability of text mining approaches for measuring the corporate disclosure. To do this, stages and general techniques of text mining have been discussed. The usability and advantages of text mining approaches for corporate disclosure measurement have been investigated. And prospective stages of text mining have been proposed to measure the corporate disclosure. The investigation and study indicates that text mining can contribute significantly to measure the corporate disclosure.

Keywords: Text mining (TM), Corporate disclosure (CD), Practice, Information meaning, Analysis

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, Z00

Suggested Citation:

Rajib, Md Salah Uddin and Sajib, Md Qutub Uddin, Corporate Disclosure Measurement: An Alternative Approach (June 25, 2017). Encyclopedia of Information Science and Technology, 4th Edition (pp. 1896-1906), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
C C Aggarwal , C X Zhai
A survey of text clustering algorithms , p. 77 - 128 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S Ananiadou , J Mcnaught
Text mining for biology and biomedicine Posted: 2006
H Antonio Do Prado , E Ferneda
Emerging technologies of text mining: Techniques and Applications Posted: 2008
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,108
RANK
697,608
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies