Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Performance Effect of Feedback Frequency and Detail: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Customer Satisfaction

53 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2017 Last revised: 3 Aug 2017

Pablo Casas-Arce

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Sofia M. Lourenço

ISEG Lisbon School of Economics and Management, Universidade de Lisboa; ADVANCE, CSG Research Center

Francisco de Asis Martinez-Jerez

Cornell University; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2, 2017

Abstract

This paper presents the results from a field experiment that examines the effects of non-financial performance feedback on the behavior of professionals working for an insurance repair company. We vary the frequency (weekly and monthly) and the level of detail of the feedback that the 800 professionals receive. Contrary to what we would expect if these professionals conformed to the model of the Bayesian decision maker, more (and more frequent) information does not always help improve performance. In fact, we find that professionals achieve the best outcomes when they receive detailed but infrequent (monthly) feedback. The treatment groups with frequent feedback, regardless of how detailed it is, perform no better than the control group (with monthly and aggregate information). The results are consistent with the information in the latest feedback report being most salient, and professionals in the weekly treatments overweighting their most recent performance, hampering their ability to learn.

Keywords: feedback, performance, customer satisfaction, field experiment, incentives, salience

JEL Classification: C93, D81, D91, J01, M40, M41, M52, M54, M55

Suggested Citation:

Casas-Arce, Pablo and Lourenço, Sofia M. and Martinez-Jerez, Francisco de Asis, The Performance Effect of Feedback Frequency and Detail: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Customer Satisfaction (August 2, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3005990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3005990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,052
RANK
172,005
24 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies