Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Miscodings in Compustat's Auditor Variable: Issues, Identification, and Correction

Advances in Accounting, Vol. 43, November 2018

Posted: 23 Jul 2017 Last revised: 2 Nov 2018

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 10, 2018

Abstract

Using an easily implementable methodology for identifying potential data errors, I identify and correct cases where Compustat miscodes its auditor variable. In this paper, I present the methodology and provide SAS code that implements the methodology, enabling researchers to easily identify and correct auditor miscodings. Further, I provide a list of corrections for a sample of Compustat firms from 2001 to 2014. Auditor variable miscodings have implications for both audit-specific research as well as general capital markets research. I find that in some cases, miscodings arise from the fact that, following an auditor change, the previous auditor’s report remains in a firm’s 10-K, and Compustat occasionally codes the previous auditor as the current auditor. Aside from identifying and correcting miscodings, I also find that a non-zero number of firms change to a new auditor and then, after only one year with the new auditor, switch back to the prior auditor.

Keywords: Auditor changes, Auditor tenure, Industry specialization, Big 4, Data integrity, Compustat

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Utke, Steven, Miscodings in Compustat's Auditor Variable: Issues, Identification, and Correction (July 10, 2018). Advances in Accounting, Vol. 43, November 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3006667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3006667
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,820
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies