Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inferring Aggregate Market Expectations from the Cross-Section of Stock Prices

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming

70 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Oct 2022

Turan G. Bali

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Craig Nichols

Syracuse University

David Weinbaum

Syracuse University

Date Written: October 19, 2022

Abstract

We introduce a new approach to estimating long-term aggregate discount rates using the cross-section of earnings and book values to explain current stock prices and extract expected market returns. The proposed discount rate measure is countercyclical. Shocks to it account for nearly half of historical market return variation; in contrast, shocks to other discount rate measures account for no more than two percent. It dominates other measures in explaining time-series variation in returns on duration-sorted portfolios and delivers out-of-sample predictability that exceeds that afforded by other expected return measures and predictive variables. It also performs well in international equity markets.

Keywords: expected market returns; discount rate news; equity duration

JEL Classification: G10, G17

Suggested Citation:

Bali, Turan G. and Nichols, Craig and Weinbaum, David, Inferring Aggregate Market Expectations from the Cross-Section of Stock Prices (October 19, 2022). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3006634 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3006634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Ang , G Bekaert
Stock Return Predictability: Is it There?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 651 - 707 Posted: 2007
M Barth , W Beaver , W Landsman
The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
M Barth , K Li , C Mcclure
Evolution in Value Relevance of Accounting Information, working paper Posted: 2018
W Beaver , R Lambert , D Morse
The Information Content of Security Prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 28 Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,007
RANK
129,684
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies