Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Topics and Trends in Finance Research: What Is Published, Who Publishes It and What Gets Cited?

46 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2017 Last revised: 28 Jan 2018

Chris Brooks

University of Reading - ICMA Centre

Lisa Schopohl

ICMA Centre, Henley Business School, University of Reading

Date Written: January 1, 2018

Abstract

In this study we provide a detailed examination of the subject matter of finance research and its institutional features as it has evolved over the past two decades. Drawing on novel approaches from data science, we examine the content of more than 30,000 published papers. Overall, we find a striking lack of diversity in the topics investigated and the methodological approaches used. Almost all finance research is conducted using techniques from economics and mathematics, with virtually no use made of qualitative methods or interdisciplinary approaches. Looking at the developments of the discipline over time, we document an increase in the volume of corporate finance research and a variation in the topics covered following the financial crisis, although these changes appear to be reactive and trivial rather than paradigm shifts. We also provide a cartography of research in finance and its citation-based impact by the location of authors. Leading finance research is concentrated in elite US institutions, and has a disproportionately strong citation-based impact. Compared with other business and management sub-fields, citations in finance are heavily skewed towards the top journals as the latter generate almost twice as much impact as the lower rated outlets.

Keywords: research topics in finance; citation analysis; journal ratings lists; ABS list; critical finance

JEL Classification: A11, B41, O30

Suggested Citation:

Brooks, Chris and Schopohl, Lisa, Topics and Trends in Finance Research: What Is Published, Who Publishes It and What Gets Cited? (January 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3009336 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3009336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
G Agyemang , J Broadbent
Management control systems and research management in universities: An empirical and conceptual exploration
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 1018 - 1046 Posted: 2015
J C Alexander , R H Mabry
Relative significance of journals, authors and articles cited in financial research
Journal of Finance , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 697 - 712 Posted: 1994
Crossref
K Ardalan
Theories and controversies in finance: a paradigmatic overview
International Journal of Social Economics , volume 30 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 199 - 209 Posted: 2003
Crossref
K Ardalan
The academic field of finance and paradigm diversity Southern
Business Review , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 31 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
782
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,123
RANK
73,283
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies