Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Synthetic Credit Ratings and the Inefficiency of Agency Ratings

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-81

Posted: 4 Aug 2017 Last revised: 4 May 2023

Doron Nissim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: April 30, 2023

Abstract

This study develops and evaluates a model that generates synthetic credit ratings using accounting and market-based information. The model performs well in explaining agency ratings, suggesting that fitted values for unrated companies are likely to be reasonably precise. Moreover, the synthetic ratings explain cross sectional differences in CDS spreads, even after controlling for contemporaneous agency ratings. Compared to synthetic ratings, agency ratings explain a greater proportion of the variation in CDS spreads, but their differential informativeness is relatively small and has declined substantially over the last decade. This decline is possibly due to post-crisis SEC regulation that limits rating agencies’ ability to obtain confidential information from rated companies. Consistent with the finding that agency ratings do not fully impound the information in synthetic ratings, the difference between synthetic and agency ratings predicts changes in agency ratings in subsequent months, especially for small companies. There is no evidence of substantial improvement over the last four decades in the timeliness of agency ratings with respect to the information in synthetic ratings. Investors in large companies appear to process the synthetic rating information in a timely fashion, as the difference between synthetic and agency ratings does not predict changes in CDS spreads or in the stock prices of these companies. For small companies, however, there is some predictability.

Keywords: credit ratings, rating agencies, credit risk, CDS, financial statement analysis, market efficiency

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G24, G28, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nissim, Doron, Synthetic Credit Ratings and the Inefficiency of Agency Ratings (April 30, 2023). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-81, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3012723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3012723
 Not Available for Download
48 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E Altman , H Rijken
A point-in-time perspective on through-the-cycle ratings
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 70 Posted: 2004
J Amato , C Furfine
Are credit ratings procyclical?
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 28 , p. 2641 - 2677 Posted: 2004
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , R Lafond
The Effects of Corporate Governance on Firms Credit Ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,688
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies