Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extending the Wisdom of Crowds: Quantifying Uncertainty Using the Mean and Variance of a Collection of Point Estimates

19 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2017 Last revised: 6 Oct 2017

Asa Palley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Operation & Decision Technologies

Date Written: August 5, 2017

Abstract

The wisdom of crowds—combining information from a collection of individual judgments—offers a useful technique to quantify an unknown variable. Averaging point estimates has proven to be effective in reducing error in the consensus estimate. However, in many managerial problems, the decision maker requires an assessment of the full distribution of uncertainty rather than just a single number. In practice, some managers have used dispersion in point estimates as a cue to uncertainty in the variable of interest, but a characterization of the exact relationship between the two has not yet been established. Using a stylized Bayesian model of overlapping information spread across a collection of judges, I show that the variance of the variable of interest can be estimated with a multiple of the variance of the individual judgments, and establish an analytical expression for the consensus predictive distribution. I then present a procedure that can be used to learn about this variance inflation factor using past judgments and realizations, and derive the resulting distribution for the new variable of interest. This aggregation method is easy to implement in practice to estimate a predictive distribution from a collection of individual judgments. Application of the procedure to forecasts available through the Survey of Professional Forecasters suggests that the resulting predictions are well-calibrated and outperform natural existing alternatives.

Keywords: Judgment Aggregation, Wisdom of Crowds, Forecasting, Combining Information, Estimation

JEL Classification: D83, C53, C91

Suggested Citation:

Palley, Asa, Extending the Wisdom of Crowds: Quantifying Uncertainty Using the Mean and Variance of a Collection of Point Estimates (August 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3014058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
S J Armstrong
Principles of Forecasting: A Handbook for Researchers and Practitioners , p. 417 - 439 Posted: 2001
K J Arrow , T Harris , J Marschak
Optimal Inventory Policy , volume 19 , p. 250 - 272 Posted: 1951
Crossref
O E Barron , O Kim , S C Lim , D E Stevens
Using Analysts' Forecasts to Measure Properties of Analysts' Information Environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
O E Barron , M H Stanford , Y Yu
Further Evidence on the Relation between Analysts' Forecast Dispersion and Stock Returns
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 329 - 357 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
384,900
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies