Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Test Power Impacts Research Relevance: The Case of Earnings Management Research

47 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2017

Zhuoan Feng

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University); University of Waikato

Yaowen Shan

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: August 8, 2017

Abstract

We argue that the broader applicability of accounting research is often limited by the way accounting researchers typically place far greater weight on the relative cost of type I versus type II errors. To illustrate the extent of this problem, we examine the performance of simple financial ratio-type analysis for detecting earnings overstatements when the total misclassification costs are minimized subject to the relative cost of type I versus type II errors. We then contrast the likelihood of type I versus type II errors from this approach with those arising from several widely used measures of unexpected accruals. The results demonstrate how commonly-used unexpected accruals measures reduce the type I error rate by sacrificing the type II error rate. Given that accounting information users and auditors typically face much higher costs of type II errors, we explicitly identify why unexpected accruals models are likely far less useful in detecting earnings overstatements than a relatively simple approach using financial statement analysis red flags. Our results highlight the fundamentally contrasting incentives facing accounting researchers relative to those who might otherwise use the research in practice, and serve as a warning when the broader relevance of accounting research is increasingly under question.

Keywords: Research Relevance, Earnings Management, Test Power, Unexpected Accruals

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Zhuoan and Shan, Yaowen and Taylor, Stephen L., How Test Power Impacts Research Relevance: The Case of Earnings Management Research (August 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3015043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3015043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
J Gerakos
Discussion of Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 335 - 347 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Kris Hoang , Steven E. Salterio , Jim Sylph
Barriers to Transferring Accounting and Auditing Research to Standard Setters
Pages: 51 Posted: 7 Mar 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A G Hopwood
Whither accounting research?
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 5 , p. 1365 - 1374 Posted: 2007
Crossref
I P Jansen , S Ramnath , T L Yohn
A diagnostic for earnings management using changes in asset turnover and profit margin
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 221 - 251 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,765
RANK
618,599
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies