Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Solving the Interpretational-Confounding and Interpretational-Ambiguity Problems of Formative Construct Modeling in Behavioral Research: Proposing a Two-Stage Fixed-Weight Redundancy Approach

Journal of the Association for Information Systems (JAIS), vol. 19(7), pp. 618-671

72 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2017 Last revised: 13 Oct 2018

Jack Hsu

Tamkang University

Chao-Min Chiu

National Sun Yat-sen University

Paul Benjamin Lowry

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

T.P. Liang

National Sun Yat-sen University - College of Management

Date Written: July 31, 2017

Abstract

Recently, formative measurements have received increasing attention in information systems research. However, current approaches to modeling formative constructs have potential validity problems and thus limited applicability. Here, we highlight two major problems in formative measurement — interpretational confounding and interpretational ambiguity — and propose a novel resolution. Interpretational confounding occurs when using the traditional free-estimation approach, because the weights of different formative indicators vary as the dependent variable changes, resulting in the distortion of the measurement weights of the focal formative construct and thus jeopardizing the generalizability of empirical tests. Another way to alleviate the interpretational-confounding issue is to include the multiple indicators multiple causes (MIMIC) construct in the path model (i.e., MIMIC-path). Unfortunately, this method has led to the second major problem of interpretational ambiguity, the existence of more than one potential explanation of the formative model. More specifically, reflective indicators in the MIMIC model can be viewed as (1) indicators of the MIMIC construct, (2) dependent variables of the formative construct, or (3) indicators of a reflective construct affected by independent variables (formative indicators). To resolve these issues, we propose a two-stage fixed-weight redundancy model (FWRM) approach. We demonstrate the applicability of the FWRM approach with a set of survey data. We conducted a simulation study evaluating the FWRM approach by comparing it with the commonly used free-estimation and MIMIC-path methods. The results indicate that our FWRM approach can indeed improve the validity of formative construct modeling by mitigating confounding and ambiguity issues.

Keywords: Formative Measurement, Fixed-Weight Redundancy Model (FWRM), Free-Estimation Model, Interpretational Confounding, Interpretational Ambiguity, MIMIC Model, Structural Equation Modeling (SEM), Partial Least Squares (PLS)

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Jack and Chiu, Chao-Min and Lowry, Paul Benjamin and Liang, T.P., Solving the Interpretational-Confounding and Interpretational-Ambiguity Problems of Formative Construct Modeling in Behavioral Research: Proposing a Two-Stage Fixed-Weight Redundancy Approach (July 31, 2017). Journal of the Association for Information Systems (JAIS), vol. 19(7), pp. 618-671, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3019095
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
M I Aguirre-Urreta , G M Marakas
A rejoinder to Rigdon
Information Systems Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 785 - 788 Posted: 2014
M I Aguirre-Urreta , G M Marakas
Research note-Partial least squares and models with formatively specified endogenous constructs: A cautionary note
Information Systems Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 761 - 778 Posted: 2014
Crossref
G Almerich , N Orellana , J Suárez-Rodríguez , I Díaz-García
Teachers' information and communication technology competences: A structural approach
Computers & Education , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 110 - 125 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J C Anderson , D W Gerbing
Structural equation modeling in practice: A review and recommended two-step approach
Psychological Bulletin , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 411 - 423 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,656
RANK
495,993
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies