Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using a Formal Concept Analysis to Examine Water Disclosure in Corporate Social Responsibility Reports

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, Forthcoming

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2017/04

28 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2017

Gary Kleinman

Montclair State University - School of Business

Chu-hua Kuei

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Picheng Lee

Pace University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 4, 2017

Abstract

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) water disclosures vary in content, leading to concern about the quality and extent of such disclosures. This paper employs formal concept analysis (FCA) to examine water reporting of selected companies in the US food and beverage industry that have followed the water guidelines set forth by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and in the disclosure guidelines of the CEO Water Mandate. Assessments of water consumption and water withdrawal were cited more often in our sample firms' CSR reports. The FCA results also identify the major focus of our sample firms as setting sustainable water management goals and water quality strategy. Other important issues included leadership, partnership, and employee involvement. While the FCA text mining tool is demonstrated using water-related behaviors here, it can be used to identify continuous improvement opportunities and examine many other issues of interest to corporate stakeholders in other industries and communities worldwide.

Keywords: Water Disclosure, Corporate Social Responsibility Reports, Formal Concept Analysis, CEO Water Mandate, Sustainability

JEL Classification: M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Kleinman, Gary and Kuei, Chu-hua and Lee, Picheng, Using a Formal Concept Analysis to Examine Water Disclosure in Corporate Social Responsibility Reports (March 4, 2017). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, Forthcoming , Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2017/04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3024565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3024565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
N N N Ahmad , N A Mohamad
Environmental disclosures by the Malaysian construction sector exploring extent and quality
Corporate Social Responsibility & Environmental Management , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 240 - 252 Posted: 2014
Crossref
E Ahmetovic , N Ibric , Z Kravanja , I E Grossmann
Water and energy integration: a comprehensive literature review of non-isothermal water network synthesis
Computers and Chemical Engineering , volume 82 , p. 144 - 171 Posted: 2015-11
Crossref
P Annoni , R Bruggemann
Exploring Partial Order of European Countries
Social Indicators Research , volume 92 , p. 471 - 487 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Bagatin , J J Klemeš , A P Reverberi , D Huisingh
Conservation and improvements in water resource management: a global challenge
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 77 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,459
RANK
588,270
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies