Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Wisdom of Crowds and the Market’s Response to Earnings News: Evidence From the Geographic Dispersion of Investors

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2018 Last revised: 12 Dec 2022

Jason V. Chen

University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: November 7, 2022

Abstract

The wisdom of crowds suggests that groups with more diversely informed individuals reach more informed decisions because their members are collectively more knowledgeable. I study this idea in the context of the market’s response to earnings announcements by examining how information diversity across investors affects the efficiency of the price response to earnings news. I measure investors’ information diversity based on their geographic dispersion, which I estimate using the locations of the requests for firms’ filings to EDGAR. Greater geographic dispersion is associated with greater trading during the announcement period; this supports the use of geographic dispersion as a measure of information diversity. Consistent with my predictions, the price response to a firm’s earnings news is more efficient when the firm’s investors have greater information diversity. In further analysis, I find that the initial heightened trading for firms with more diversely informed investors subsides quickly after the announcement period.

Keywords: diversely informed investors, earnings announcements, EDGAR, geography, location

JEL Classification: G12, G14, D83

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jason V., The Wisdom of Crowds and the Market’s Response to Earnings News: Evidence From the Geographic Dispersion of Investors (November 7, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3034250 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3034250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
J M Addoum , A Kumar , K Law
Geographic Diffusion of Information and Stock Returns Posted: 2015
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty Contests and Iterated Expectations in Asset Markets
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
P C Austin
Balance Diagnostics for Comparing the Distribution of Baseline Covariates Between Treatment Groups in Propensity-Score Matched Samples
Statistics in Medicine , volume 28 , p. 3083 - 3107 Posted: 2009
R Ball
The Earnings-Price Anomaly
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2-3 , p. 319 - 345 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,389
RANK
198,235
6 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies