Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts' forecast dispersion and stock market anomalies: The role of forecast bias

45 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2017 Last revised: 10 Nov 2020

Tingting Liu

University of Tennessee, Knoxville; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Paul J. Irvine

Neeley School of Business

Date Written: March 18, 2018

Abstract

We show that understanding the role of analysts' forecast bias is central to discovering the behavior that causes some stocks to have high analyst forecast dispersion. This finding is important because stocks with high analyst forecast dispersion contribute significantly to many important anomalies. We first explain how forecast bias produces significant negative future returns in the high dispersion portfolio. Next we examine the effect of these stocks on momentum returns, the profitability anomaly, and post-earnings announcement drift. Finally, we examine the performance of four asset pricing models focusing on the model's ability to explain the returns to these high dispersion stocks.

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Tingting and Irvine, Paul J., Analysts' forecast dispersion and stock market anomalies: The role of forecast bias (March 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3045479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3045479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
J S Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Abarbanell , W Lanen , R Verrecchia
Analysts' forecasts as proxies for investor beliefs in empirical research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,304
RANK
115,595
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies