Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contracting Cost Determinants of Changes in Income Tax Accounting Method

44 Pages Posted: 28 May 2002

Norman Wong

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: March 2002

Abstract

This study examines why firms in New Zealand change income tax accounting methods from comprehensive to partial tax allocation. New Zealand provides a unique institutional setting to test this phenomenon because it allows companies to use either comprehensive or partial tax allocation, a situation not permitted in other major accounting jurisdictions such as the U.S., Canada, and Australia. I hypothesize the change from the comprehensive to the partial tax allocation method is made for efficient contracting reasons to maximize firm value. Specifically, I argue that if firms experience growth in investments in depreciable assets and continue to use comprehensive tax allocation, an unintended and potentially ever growing liability that has no cash outflow implications is reported on the balance sheet. Overstatement of this liability could result in inadvertent adverse consequences such as perceived increased risk, leading to higher borrowing costs and debt covenant violation. As a result, these firms change to partial tax allocation, because it is seen as a more efficient accounting procedure in these circumstances. In general, I find support for the efficient contracting argument - that is, the change to partial is related to the extent of investment in depreciable assets. However, debt-related opportunistic incentives cannot be ruled out totally.

Keywords: accounting changes, debt contracting, efficient contracting theory, income tax accounting methods

JEL Classification: M41, M43, H25

Suggested Citation:

Wong, Norman, Contracting Cost Determinants of Changes in Income Tax Accounting Method (March 2002). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=309080 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.309080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R L Watts , J L Zimmerman
Positive accounting theory: A ten year perspective
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 56 Posted: 1990
H White
Maximum likelihood estimation of misspecified models
Econometrica , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1982
Crossref
G Whittred
The derived demand for consolidated financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 259 - 85 Posted: 1987
Crossref
G Whittred , I Zimmer
Accounting information in the market for debt
Accounting and Finance , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 34 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
459
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,256
RANK
143,763
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Separation of Ownership and Control

By Eugene F. Fama and Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Performance Pay and Top Management Incentives

By Kevin J. Murphy and Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Agency Problems and Residual Claims

By Eugene F. Fama and Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies