Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Let's Abolish Pre-Publication Peer Review and Print Journals

16 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2019 Last revised: 11 Feb 2019

Bill Bailey

Independent

Date Written: October 23, 2018

Abstract

The paper gives 4 reasons to abolish pre-publication peer review and print journals. First, every print journal’s editor and referees effectively say to its subscribers, “We will decide for you what is (and is not) worth reading.” Therein lies the same thought control that the Catholic Church practiced for 407 years with its list of forbidden books. Second, print journals’ pre-publication peer-review process is so seriously flawed that it should be scrapped. Interesting examples of each of the 3 types of flaws are given. One example recites my experience with an unethical journal editor (Alexander Bird). Third, end-of-process inspection is an ineffective quality-control system. And fourth, the internet is a far better distribution system than the one print journals use.

Keywords: Peer review, print journals, internet, flawed review process, unethical journal editor

Suggested Citation:

Bailey, Bill, Let's Abolish Pre-Publication Peer Review and Print Journals (October 23, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3170307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3170307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
B Bailey
An Appraisal of Research Designs Used to Investigate the Information Content of Audit Reports
Accounting Review , volume 62 , p. 141 - 146 Posted: 1982-01
W E Deming
Out of the Crisis Posted: 1982
Crossref
H Dukas , B Hoffmann
Albert Einstein: The Human Side Posted: 1979
A Einstein
Ideas and Opinions Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,580
RANK
514,660
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies