Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Out of Control: The (Over)use of Controls in Accounting Research

The Accounting Review: Forthcoming doi: https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0637

Posted: 27 Jul 2018 Last revised: 22 Jul 2021

Robert Lowell Whited

North Carolina State University

Quinn Thomas Swanquist

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Jonathan E. Shipman

University of Arkansas

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: June 29, 2021

Abstract

In the absence of random treatment assignment, the selection of appropriate control variables is essential to designing well-specified empirical tests of causal effects. However, the importance of control variables seems underappreciated in accounting research relative to other methodological issues. Despite the frequent reliance on control variables, the accounting literature has limited guidance on how to select them. We evaluate the evolution in use of control variables in accounting research and discuss some of the issues that researchers should consider when choosing control variables. Using simulations, we illustrate that more control is not always better and that some control variables can introduce bias into an otherwise well-specified model. We also demonstrate other issues with control variables including the effects of measurement error and complications associated with fixed effects. Lastly, we provide practical suggestions for future accounting research.

Keywords: accounting research methods, controls, measurement error, interactions, fixed effects

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C18, C52

Suggested Citation:

Whited, Robert Lowell and Swanquist, Quinn Thomas and Shipman, Jonathan E. and Moon, James, Out of Control: The (Over)use of Controls in Accounting Research (June 29, 2021). The Accounting Review: Forthcoming doi: https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0637, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3209571
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,209
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies