Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
RCAR and CHARMA Models Versus Stochastic Volatility Models: A Forecasting Analysis Using Macrofinancial Data

35 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2018

Stefanos Dimitrakopoulos

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Mike Tsionas

Lancaster University

Date Written: June 6, 2018

Abstract

Using inflation and return time series, we first evaluate the forecasting performance of two classes of conditional heteroscedastic models: the random coefficient autoregressive (RCAR) models and the conditional heteroscedastic autoregressive moving average (CHARMA) models. Markov Chain Monte Carlo schemes are developed for the estimation of the model parameters. Furthermore, the forecasting ability of these two models is compared against that of several stochastic volatility models that control for time-varying parameters, in mean effects, leverage effects and moving average errors. We found that our proposed models can produce better point and density forecasts than various stochastic volatility specifications, with the CHARMA models outperforming the RCAR models.

Suggested Citation:

Dimitrakopoulos, Stefanos and Tsionas, Efthymios G., RCAR and CHARMA Models Versus Stochastic Volatility Models: A Forecasting Analysis Using Macrofinancial Data (June 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3210081 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3210081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Araveeporn
Comparing random coefficient autoregressive model with and without autocorrelated errors by Bayesian analysis
Statistical Journal of the IAOS , volume 33 , p. 537 - 545 Posted: 2017
Crossref
I Berkes , L Horvath , S Ling
Estimation in nonstationary random coefficient autoregressive models
Journal of Time Series Analysis , volume 30 , p. 395 - 416 Posted: 2009
Crossref
F Black
Studies of stock market volatility changes
Proceedings of the American Statistical Association, Business and Economic Studies Section , p. 177 - 181 Posted: 1976
T Bollerslev , R Y Chou , K F Kroner
ARCH modelling in finance: A review of the theory and empirical evidence
Journal of Econometrics , volume 52 , p. 5 - 59 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,065
RANK
556,453
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies