Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Truncating Optimism

77 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2018 Last revised: 11 Aug 2021

Zachary Kaplan

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Yifang Xie

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

Consensus estimates, formed by taking an average of analyst forecasts, play an important role in capital markets (e.g., provide investors with a proxy for earnings expectations). We show I/B/E/S, a prominent information intermediary, removes 6% of one-quarter-ahead earnings forecasts before calculating the consensus and among the 23% of firm-quarters with at least one forecast removed, this figure rises to 16%. We provide evidence suggesting that I/B/E/S subjectively applies policies that govern its removal decisions and accepts feedback from firms that contributes to this subjectivity. Specifically, we find optimistic forecasts are removed more frequently than pessimistic forecasts, and such asymmetry increases further when removals allow firms to meet or beat the consensus. Furthermore, we find that these effects are more pronounced when managers’ incentives to just meet or beat the consensus are stronger (i.e., higher subsequent insider sales or higher compensation delta), or managers have greater ability to influence I/B/E/S. Lastly, we demonstrate that these subjective removals benefit I/B/E/S by improving consensus accuracy, explaining why I/B/E/S is willing to be influenced by firms.

Keywords: Forecast removals, firm influence, expectation management, analyst forecasts, I/B/E/S, forecast optimism, consensus accuracy

JEL Classification: D62, D82, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kaplan, Zachary and Martin, Xiumin and Xie, Yifang, Truncating Optimism (July 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3213833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3213833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Consensus Earnings Estimates Posted: 2013-04
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Biased forecasts or biased earnings? The role of reported earnings in explaining apparent bias and over/underreaction in analysts' earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 105 - 146 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Ferhat Akbas , Stanimir Markov , Musa Subasi , Eric H. Weisbrod
Determinants and Consequences of Information Processing Delay: Evidence from the Thomson Reuters Institutional Brokers’ Estimate System
Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), 127 (2018) 366-388, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 18-7 Pages: 58 Posted: 28 Oct 2016 Last revised: 10 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Subasi; , E Weisbrod
Determinants and consequences of information processing delay: Evidence from the Thomson Reuters Institutional Brokers' Estimate System
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
600
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,644
RANK
103,177
4 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies