Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No System is Perfect: Understanding How Registration‐Based Editorial Processes Affect Reproducibility and Investment in Research Quality

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 56, No. 2, 2018

Posted: 2 Aug 2018

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Kristina M. Rennekamp

SC Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Blake A. Steenhoven

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2018

Abstract

The papers in this volume were published through a Registration‐based Editorial Process (REP). Authors submitted proposals to gather and analyze data; successful proposals were guaranteed publication as long as the authors lived up to their commitments, regardless of whether results supported their predictions. To understand how REP differs from the Traditional Editorial Process (TEP), we analyze the papers themselves; conference comments; a survey of conference authors, reviewers, and attendees; and a survey of authors who have successfully published under TEP. We find that REP increases up‐front investment in planning, data gathering, and analysis, but reduces follow‐up investment after results are known. This shift in investment makes individual results more reproducible, but leaves articles less thorough and refined. REP could be improved by encouraging selected forms of follow‐up investment that survey respondents believe are usually used under TEP to make papers more informative, focused, and accurate at little risk of overstatement.

Keywords: Registered Reports, Reproducibility, Editorial Processes, Research Discretion, Peer Review

JEL Classification: C18, I23, B00, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Robert J. and Rennekamp, Kristina M. and Steenhoven, Blake, No System is Perfect: Understanding How Registration‐Based Editorial Processes Affect Reproducibility and Investment in Research Quality (May 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 56, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3213510
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,005
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies