Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy Resolution: Misery or Strategy

ABACUS, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2018 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

Mariachiara Barzotto

University of Bath School of Management

André Aroldo Freitas De Moura

FGV - EAESP

Date Written: February 25, 2019

Abstract

Contrary to conventional wisdom, this study reports the presence of a positive relationship between large United States firms’ leverage levels and their likelihood of emerging from Chapter 11 bankruptcy. In anticipation of a favourable court outcome, which allows them to emerge from bankruptcy with reduced debt, firms tend to increase their leverage levels in the years preceding the bankruptcy filing year. Thus, suggesting strategic abuse of bankruptcy courts and creditors. Test results suggest that firms start acting strategically up to four years before filing for bankruptcy so that they can emerge with a reduced debt burden at the cost of creditors. Additionally, our study also contributes to the corporate bankruptcy literature by exploring a set of factors (related to the firm, judicial, case, geographic, and macroeconomic characteristics) explaining the likelihood of firms emerging from bankruptcy, and proposing a parsimonious multivariate model that best predicts the likelihood of surviving Chapter 11 bankruptcy.

Keywords: Bankruptcy Resolution, Strategic Behaviour, Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, Financial Distress, Financial Benefit

JEL Classification: G11, G33, K2, M00

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Jairaj and Barzotto, Mariachiara and De Moura, André Aroldo Freitas, Bankruptcy Resolution: Misery or Strategy (February 25, 2019). ABACUS, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3216433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3216433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
B E Adler , V Capkun , L A Weiss
Value destruction in the new era of Chapter 11
The Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 461 - 483 Posted: 2013
G A Akerlof , P M Romer , R E Hall , N G Mankiw
Looting: The economic underworld of bankruptcy for profit
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 2 , p. 1 - 73 Posted: 1993
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E I Altman , E Hotchkiss , W Wang
Corporate Financial Distress and Bankruptcy: Predict and Avoid Bankruptcy, Analyze and Invest in Distressed Debt Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
RANK
344,140
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies