Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting Market Volatility: The Role of Earnings Announcements

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

29th Annual Conference on Financial Economics & Accounting 2018

53 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2018 Last revised: 15 Nov 2023

Jaewoo Kim

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Yucheng (John) Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 30, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether information revealed by firms’ earnings announcements (EAs) forecasts short-run market-wide volatility in equity index prices. Using an exponential GARCH model that includes controls for the information in an array of macroeconomic announcements, we find that EA information aggregated across firms forecasts market volatility at daily and weekly intervals. EA information’s forecasting power is greatest when more firms announce earnings on a given day, when EAs convey negative news, and for EA information about core earnings. Out-of-sample tests confirm that forecasts incorporating EA information better predict short-run market volatility than forecasts omitting EA information. We conclude that firm-level EAs are a significant source of systematic, market-wide information relevant for predicting near-term market volatility.

Keywords: stock market volatility; forecasting; earnings announcements; macroeconomic announcements; exponential GARCH; out-of-sample tests

JEL Classification: E44, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jaewoo and Schonberger, Bryce and Wasley, Charles E. and Yang, Yucheng, Forecasting Market Volatility: The Role of Earnings Announcements (October 30, 2023). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, 29th Annual Conference on Financial Economics & Accounting 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3219384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3219384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A M Abdalla , J M Carabias
From Accounting to Economics: The Role of Aggregate Special Items in Gauging the State of the Economy
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
A M Abdalla , J M Carabias , P N Patatoukas
The Real-Time Macro Content of Corporate Financial Reports: A Dynamic Factor Model Approach
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 118 , p. 260 - 280 Posted: 2021
D Acemoglu , A Scott
Asymmetric Business Cycles: Theory and Time-Series Evidence
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 501 - 533 Posted: 1997
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , P F Christoffersen , F X Diebold
Volatility Forecasting
Working Paper Series Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,456
RANK
95,735
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies