Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quantum Entropy and Accounting

40 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2018

John C. Fellingham

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Haijin Lin

University of Houston

Douglas Schroeder

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: July 27, 2018

Abstract

In a previous paper we establish the equality between accounting numbers and information in a classical Arrow-Debreu economy. One of the conditions is complete market, that is, there exists an Arrow-Debreu security for every possible state realization. In this paper, we relax this condition and establish the equality between accounting numbers and information by exploring quantum information and measurement mathematics. In the revised domain expanded relationship, von Neumann entropy replaces Shannon entropy to capture the information effect.

Keywords: accounting, information, entropy

Suggested Citation:

Fellingham, John C. and Lin, Haijin and Schroeder, Douglas, Quantum Entropy and Accounting (July 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3220892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Joel Demski , John Fellingham , Haijin Lin , Douglas Schroeder
Interaction between productivity and measurement
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2008
Crossref
John Fellingham , Haijin Lin
Is accounting an information science
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium. Forthcoming
Crossref
John Kelly
A New Interpretation of Information Rate
The Bell System Technical Journal , volume 35 , p. 917 - 926 Posted: 1956
Crossref
Michael A Nielsen , L Isaac , Chuang
Quantum Computation and Quantum Information Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
RANK
392,891
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies