Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Uniformity: Its Relation to Comparability and Its Impact on Financial Statement Users

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Volume 49, Issue 9-10, Pages 1457-1488, October-November 2022

Posted: 30 Jul 2018 Last revised: 30 Jun 2025

Marcus L. Caylor

Kennesaw State University

Dennis J. Chambers

Kennesaw State University; University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Sunay Mutlu

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business

Date Written: March 21, 2022

Abstract

We explore the relation between financial reporting uniformity and comparability. We also examine the effect of uniformity on analyst coverage, analyst forecast accuracy, and analyst forecast dispersion. We develop a Compustat-based financial statement account uniformity measure based on the presentation of common financial statement line items. We define uniformity using a Jaccard similarity index where a firm’s non-missing Compustat data items are compared to a prototypical firm for that industry-year. We emphasize the conceptual difference between uniformity and comparability, and our tests do not show a significant association between uniformity and output-based accounting comparability. However, we find that the association between account uniformity and comparability becomes positive in high R&D firms, while it becomes negative in firms with higher managerial discretion. We explore the association between uniformity and information processing efficiencies, and we show that our uniformity measure is positively associated with analyst coverage. Furthermore, we partition our uniformity measure into separate income statement and balance sheet components. We find that income statement uniformity is associated with higher forecast accuracy and lower forecast dispersion, while balance sheet uniformity is associated with greater analyst coverage. Finally, we provide further support for these findings using an XBRL-based uniformity measure.

Keywords: Uniformity, Flexibility, Comparability, Analyst Forecasts, Analyst Coverage, Analyst Forecast Dispersion, Analyst Forecast Accuracy, XBRL

JEL Classification: M41, G10, G14

Suggested Citation:

Caylor, Marcus L. and Chambers, Dennis J. and Mutlu, Sunay, Financial Reporting Uniformity: Its Relation to Comparability and Its Impact on Financial Statement Users (March 21, 2022). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Volume 49, Issue 9-10, Pages 1457-1488, October-November 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3221183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3221183
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Elaine Henry , Fang-Chun Liu , Steve Y. Yang , Xiaodi Zhu
Does Financial Statement Line-item Comparability Affect Analysts’ Forecasts?
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Forthcoming · 56 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 17 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 678
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,228
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies