Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Origins of Forecast Walk-Downs: A Macro-to-Micro Perspective

Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance

49 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018 Last revised: 5 Apr 2021

Panos N. Patatoukas

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Ari Yezegel

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Jean (Jieyin) Zeng

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Date Written: May 30, 2017

Abstract

We document a walk-down in GDP growth projections that is akin to that in sell-side analysts’ earnings forecasts. While the walk-down in earnings forecasts has been generally attributed to the strategic interplay between corporate managers and sell-side analysts, professional macro forecasters affiliated with the Federal Reserve are less susceptible to outside pressure to curry favor with managers. Our evidence shows that asymmetrically high forecasting difficulty in downturns relative to upturns of the U.S. economy is relevant in explaining the walk-down in macro forecasts. Without rejecting the expectations game between managers and sell-side analysts, our paper offers a more auspicious characterization of forecast walk-downs. An overarching implication is that research on the properties of sell-side analysts’ forecasts should consider strategic incentives for bias interacted with information about the state of the economy and heterogeneity in the cyclical exposure of individual firms.

Keywords: forecast walk-downs, macro forecasters, sell-side analysts

JEL Classification: E00, E30, E32, H32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Patatoukas, Panos N. and Yezegel, Ari and Zeng, Jean, On the Origins of Forecast Walk-Downs: A Macro-to-Micro Perspective (May 30, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3222884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3222884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,655
RANK
321,382
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies