Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of accrual heterogeneity on accrual quality inferences

63 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2018 Last revised: 10 Aug 2021

Patricia Dechow

USC Marshall School of Business

Chad R. Larson

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Robert J. Resutek

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Date Written: July 25, 2021

Abstract

We investigate the impact of the mixed attribute GAAP measurement model on accrual quality inferences. GAAP rules vary from an income statement ‘matching’ focus to a balance sheet ‘fair-value’ focus. Accrual properties are also affected by the business activity being measured and the activity’s recurrence. Furthermore, accrual measurement is affected by managerial estimation error/manipulation. As a consequence, accruals are heterogenous with predictably different statistical properties. We construct a dataset of more than 100,000 accrual items that Compustat aggregates into data item, FOPO. We classify these accruals into 32 types over a 21-year span. We show that variation in persistence for the 32 accrual types is consistent with our predictions concerning GAAP rules. We provide a model of accruals and show that it is implausible for estimation error of reasonable magnitudes to explain this variation. Finally, we develop a measure of reporting consistency and show its impact on accrual quality inferences.

Keywords: earnings quality, accruals, consistency, persistence, aggregation, disaggregation

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dechow, Patricia and Larson, Chad Russell and Resutek, Robert J., The effect of accrual heterogeneity on accrual quality inferences (July 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3223968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
745
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,145
RANK
78,143
10 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies