Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explicit Incentives, Implicit Incentives and Effort: Evidence from Large-scale Survey Data of Rank-and-file Employees

AAA 2019 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting

41 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2018 Last revised: 16 May 2019

Sander van Triest

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School

Date Written: May 15, 2019

Abstract

This paper evaluates the relationship of implicit and explicit incentives with effort for a sample of some 5,800 rank-and-file employees in 1,100 U.K. for-profit workplaces. Explicit incentives are performance-based rewards, while implicit incentives reflect actual and potential permanent increases from merit pay, promotion opportunities, and at a very basic level not losing one’s job. As effort indicator we use the self-reported amount of unpaid overtime. We find limited and inconsistent evidence that effort increases with the use of performance-based incentives, while it is strongly positively related with basic pay level and promotion requirements. Reciprocity effects seem less important: pay satisfaction is negatively related with overtime. This suggests that implicit incentives from career opportunities are more conducive to higher effort than performance-based incentives.

Keywords: implicit incentives, explicit incentives, effort, overtime, rank-and-file employees

Suggested Citation:

van Triest, Sander, Explicit Incentives, Implicit Incentives and Effort: Evidence from Large-scale Survey Data of Rank-and-file Employees (May 15, 2019). AAA 2019 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3233506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
G A Akerlof
Labor contracts as partial gift exchange
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 543 - 569 Posted: 1982
Crossref
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the economics of organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H M Allen , T Slavin , Iii Bunn , W B
Do long workhours impact health, safety, and productivity at a heavy manufacturer
Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 148 - 171 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Baik , Iii Evans , J H Kim , K Yanadori , Y
White collar incentives. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 53 , p. 34 - 49 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Qiuwen Ma , Sai On Cheung
Augmenting the Incentivizing Power of Target Cost Contracting in Integrated Project Delivery
Journal of Construction Engineering and Management , volume 151 , issue 7 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,889
RANK
146,772
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies