Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online Worker Fraud and Evolving Threats to the Integrity of MTurk Data: A Discussion of Virtual Private Servers and the Limitations of IP-Based Screening Procedures

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2018 Last revised: 12 Nov 2019

Sean A. Dennis

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Brian M. Goodson

Clemson University

Chris Pearson

University of Kentucky

Date Written: March 14, 2019

Abstract

We identify a pervasive, yet previously undocumented threat to the reliability of MTurk data – and discuss how this specific issue is symptomatic of opportunities and incentives that facilitate fraudulent behavior within online recruitment platforms. In doing so, we explain how IP addresses were never intended to identify individuals and are, on their own, likely insufficient to identify and mitigate emergent risks around data integrity. We discuss MTurk samples for two independent studies that include alarming proportions of participants who circumvent an entire set of conventional sample screening methods – and provide disturbingly low-quality responses. These “bad actors” exploited inherent limitations of IP screening procedures by using virtual private servers (VPS) that concealed the IP address of their local devices. While service providers (e.g., TurkPrime) now offer tools that help target this VPS-enabled abuse, the underlying limitations of IP screening procedures remain – and fraudulent workers will likely continue finding ways to exploit these inherent limitations. Our findings and discussions emphasize the importance of continued diligence within the research community to identify and mitigate evolving threats to data integrity as quickly as possible.

Keywords: Amazon Mechanical Turk; online experiments; participant screening; online labor markets; TurkPrime; virtual private servers

Suggested Citation:

Dennis, Sean A. and Goodson, Brian Matthew and Pearson, Chris, Online Worker Fraud and Evolving Threats to the Integrity of MTurk Data: A Discussion of Virtual Private Servers and the Limitations of IP-Based Screening Procedures (March 14, 2019). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233954 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3233954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
D J Ahler , C E Roush , G Sood
The micro-task market for lemons: Data quality on Amazon's Mechanical Turk Posted: 2019
Amazon Mechanical Turk
Tutorial: Understanding requirements and qualifications Posted: 2017-09-17
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K Rennekamp
Disclosure readability and the sensitivity of investors' valuation judgments to outside information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
Crossref
D M Brandon , J H Long , T M Loraas , J Mueller-Phillips , B Vansant
Online instrument delivery and participant recruitment services: Emerging opportunities for behavioral accounting research
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,888
RANK
12,328
70 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies