Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual Analysts’ Stock Recommendations, Earnings Forecasts, and the Informativeness of Conference Call Question and Answer Sessions

Forthcoming, The Accounting Review

Posted: 31 Aug 2018 Last revised: 17 Jan 2020

William J. Mayew

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Mani Sethuraman

Cornell University - Department of Accounting; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Date Written: December 29, 2019

Abstract

This paper deepens our understanding of the anatomy of an earnings conference call. Prior research indicates that, on average, analysts providing bullish stock recommendations or beatable earnings forecasts benefit from greater access to corporate management. Therefore, we analyze whether and to what extent individual analysts’ ex ante stock recommendations and earnings forecasts affect the information content of analyst-manager conversations. Using intra-day absolute stock price reactions around specific analyst-manager dialogues to measure informativeness, we find that manager dialogues with bearish analysts whose forecasts are missed are more informative. Such analysts engage in longer conversations with more back-and-forth iterations and exhibit a more negative tone, relative to bullish analysts that provide beatable forecasts. Stock prices directionally respond to both the analyst’s linguistic tone and the manager’s voice pitch. In sum, the capital market effects during an earnings conference call are far more nuanced than previously documented.

Keywords: Conference Calls, Financial Analysts, Corporate Access, Price Formation, Market Microstructure, Bulls and Bears

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Mayew, William J. and Sethuraman, Mani and Venkatachalam, Mohan, Individual Analysts’ Stock Recommendations, Earnings Forecasts, and the Informativeness of Conference Call Question and Answer Sessions (December 29, 2019). Forthcoming, The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3241786
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Alan Huang , Wenfeng Wu , Tong Yu
Textual analysis for China’s financial markets: a review and discussion
China Finance Review International , volume ahead-of-print , issue ahead-of-print Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies