Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Mixed Data Sampling Approach to Accounting Research

49 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2018

Ryan T. Ball

The Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan

Lindsey A. Gallo

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: September 16, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines a mixed data sampling (MIDAS) approach to accounting research. MIDAS regression models parsimoniously incorporate variation embedded in existing economic data that are observed at much higher frequencies than accounting data. The additional source of data variation creates an opportunity to address new and important questions in accounting research. We develop and outline four new MIDAS models within the general framework that are simple to estimate and capture economic properties that are relevant to accounting research. We demonstrate the efficacy of our models with empirical applications to the January effect and to earnings response coefficients, which together illustrate the potential to expand the boundaries of accounting research by getting more out of high-frequency data.

Keywords: Mixed data sampling, ERC, January effect

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ryan T. and Gallo, Lindsey A., A Mixed Data Sampling Approach to Accounting Research (September 16, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3250445 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3250445
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
E Andreou , E Ghysels , A Kourtellos
Forecasting with mixed-frequency data
Oxford Handbook of Economic Forecasting Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Armesto , K Engemann , M Owyang
Forecasting with mixed frequencies
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Review , volume 92 , p. 521 - 536 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , V Nikolaev
On estimating conditional conservatism
Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 755 - 787 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Ryan T. Ball , Lindsey Gallo , Eric Ghysels
Tilting the evidence: the role of firm-level earnings attributes in the relation between aggregated earnings and gross domestic product
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 570 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Lisa A. Hinson , Steven Utke
Structural Equation Modeling in Archival Capital Markets Research: An Empirical Application to Disclosure and Cost of Capital
Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 8, No. 2, Fall 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JFR-2019-0021 · Posted: 5 Jun 2015 · Last revised: 8 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
20,417
RANK
5,243
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies