Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Google Searches of Firm Products to Detect Revenue Management

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2018 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Peng-Chia Chiu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Siew Hong Teoh

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Yinglei Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Xuan Huang

California State University, Long Beach

Date Written: April 10, 2020

Abstract

We introduce a novel Big Data analytics model to detect upward revenue misreporting.
The model uses freely available Google searches of firm products to provide external
entity business state (EBS) evidence. The veracity of the reported numbers is enhanced
when auditors can obtain external EBS evidence congruent with the reported numbers. The
Google search volume index (SVI) of firm products is a good candidate for such EBS
evidence because it nowcasts (i.e. predicts present) firm sales and is independent of
management control. A large discrepancy such as a high sales growth together with a large
decline in the SVI suggests possible manipulation upwards of revenues. We find that an
indicator variable, MUP, of a firm in the top sales growth quartile and bottom ΔSVI
quartile in each industry-quarter predicts revenue misstatements incrementally to the
F_Score, Discretionary-Revenues model, two alternative upward revenue manipulation
identifiers, and analyst and media coverages. MUP predictability is stronger in end-user
industries and in interim quarters relative to the fourth quarter. We also find corroborating
evidence that MUP firms have lower sales growth persistence, larger increases in accounts
receivables, and lower allowances for bad debts, consistent with their lower revenue
quality.

Keywords: Big Data Analytics, Audit Risk Assessment, Revenue Fraud Detection, Financial Reporting Quality, Auditing Theory of Evidentiary Triangulation

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Peng-Chia and Teoh, Siew Hong and Zhang, Yinglei and Huang, Xuan, Using Google Searches of Firm Products to Detect Revenue Management (April 10, 2020). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3252314 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3252314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
Auditor Reporting and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the Audit of Financial Statements
AICPA. American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 2002
Omnibus Statement on Auditing Standards, statement on auditing standards no. 135 Posted: 2019
A Albrecht , K Kim , K Lee
Mandatory disclosure and management discretion: on the case of changes in accounting estimates Posted: 2020
K D Allee , B Baik , Y Roh
Detecting financial misreporting with real production activity
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1581 - 1615 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
845
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,435
RANK
66,091
4 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies