Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Present a Model for Financial and Non-Financial Environmental Reporting (Case Study of Oil and Gas Operation Company of Gachsaran)

Posted: 30 Oct 2018

Mohsen Ahmadi

department of accounting, Yasuj branch, Islamic Azad university, Yasuj, Iran,

Hashem Valipour

Yasuj Branch, Islamic Azad University, Yasuj,

Yaghob Zeraatkish

department of Agricultural Economics, Yasooj Branch, Islamic Azad University, Yasuj, Iran

Date Written: September 27, 2018

Abstract

The present study is aimed to present a model for financial and non-financial environmental reporting in oil and gas Operation Company. The present study is applied in terms of nature and goal and in terms of study method in the phase of the identification of the effective factors on financial and non-financial environmental reporting is qualitative and in the phase of identification of the relationship between variables is correlation. The study population in fuzzy Delphi stage is 5 experts and financial experts as sampling using judgmental purposeful method. In structural equations modelling, 83 managers and financial experts were sampled using census. For data collection, the questionnaires were designed based on fuzzy Delphi and Likert scale. The applied software in this study is smart PLS (Version 2), SPSS (version 23) and Excel (version 2013). By fuzzy Delphi method, among 18 identified indices of literature, 8 indices were verified by the experts. The results of study by PLS method showed the support of all hypotheses at confidence interval 95%. The results showed that the social component with the Beta 0.420% had the highest impact on non-financial reporting.

Keywords: Accounting for Environment, Financial Reporting, Non-Financial Reporting, Oil and Gas Operation Company of Gachsaran

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ahmadi, Mohsen and Valipour, Hashem and Zeraatkish, Yaghob, Present a Model for Financial and Non-Financial Environmental Reporting (Case Study of Oil and Gas Operation Company of Gachsaran) (September 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3256546
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,015
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies