Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of the Spanish Accounting Reform on the Economic and Financial Structure, and the Performance of Listed Companies

International Journal of Accounting and Taxation, June 2018, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 1-17

17 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2018

Juan L. Gandía

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

David Huguet

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 1, 2018

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to examine the impact of the 2008 accounting reform on the economic and financial indicators which are commonly used in the financial analysis, as well as analyse whether there is an evolution on these measures as a consequence of a learning process or an adaptation to the accounting reform. Firstly, we do a normative analysis to examine the differences in the Spanish GAAP before and after the accounting reform. Based on the differences we find, we formulate a series of hypotheses about how these differences affect the main measures of economic structure, financial structure, and performance which are commonly used in the analysis of financial statements, as well as their effect on the accruals. These hypotheses are tested with a multivariate analysis in a sample of listed companies. Results show that the accounting reform has effects on the financial indicators.

Keywords: Accounting reform, Comparability, Differences in accounting standards

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gandía, Juan L. and Huguet, David, Effects of the Spanish Accounting Reform on the Economic and Financial Structure, and the Performance of Listed Companies (June 1, 2018). International Journal of Accounting and Taxation, June 2018, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 1-17 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3272099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,257
RANK
785,362
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies