Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Differential Timeliness of Stock Price in Incorporating Bad versus Good News and the Earnings-Return Asymmetry

The Accounting Review

62 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2018 Last revised: 14 Sep 2023

Zhuo (June) Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Jing Fang

University of Central Arkansas

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

The larger association between earnings and contemporaneous returns for negative returns than for positive returns is often attributed to conditional conservatism. We reason that this asymmetry may also be driven by the lack of timeliness with which stock price incorporates bad news relative to good news. Consistent with our reasoning, we show that when stock price incorporates bad news with delay, the asymmetry can exist in the absence of conditional conservatism. This suggests the testable hypothesis that the asymmetry decreases (increases) with factors that facilitate (impede) the incorporation of bad news into stock price. Using stock liquidity to test this hypothesis, we find that the earnings-return asymmetry decreases, and even disappears, as stock liquidity increases. Our findings support the view that variation in the earnings-return asymmetry may also reflect variation in the quality of the return generating process.

Keywords: Conditional conservatism; Stock liquidity; Earnings-return asymmetry; Asymmetric timeliness

JEL Classification: G14, G40, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Zhuo (June) and Fang, Jing and Myers, Linda A., The Differential Timeliness of Stock Price in Incorporating Bad versus Good News and the Earnings-Return Asymmetry (October 1, 2018). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3275226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3275226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Gregory W. Eaton , Paul J. Irvine , Tingting Liu
Measuring institutional trading costs and the implications for finance research: The case of tick size reductions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 139 , issue 3 , p. 832 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,479
RANK
151,887
1 Citations
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies