Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Invite Your Friend and You’ll Move Up in Line: Optimal Design of Referral Priority Programs

Forthcoming, Manufacturing & Service Operations Management

40 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2018 Last revised: 27 Nov 2019

Luyi Yang

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: October 30, 2018

Abstract

This paper studies the optimal design of referral priority programs, in which customers on a waitlist can jump the line by inviting their friends to also join the waitlist. Recent years have witnessed a growing presence of referral priority programs as a novel customer acquisition strategy for firms that maintain a waitlist. Different variations of this scheme are seen in practice, raising the question of what should be the optimal referral priority mechanism. We build an analytical model that integrates queueing theory into a mechanism design framework, where the objective of the firm is to maximize the system throughput, i.e., to accelerate customer acquisition as much as possible. Our analysis shows that the optimal mechanism has one of the following structures: full-priority, partial priority, first-in-first-out (FIFO), and strategic delay. A full-priority (partial-priority) scheme enables referring customers to get ahead of all (only some) non-referring ones. A FIFO scheme does not provide any priority-based referral incentive. A strategic-delay scheme grants full priority to referring customers, but artificially inflates the delay of non-referring ones. We show that FIFO is optimal if either the base market size or the referral cost is large. Otherwise, partial priority is optimal if the base market size is above a certain threshold; full priority is optimal at the threshold base market size; strategic delay is optimal if the base market size is below the threshold. We also find that referrals motivate the firm to maintain a larger capacity and therefore, can surprisingly shorten the average delay even though more customers sign up and strategic delay is sometimes inserted. Our paper provides prescriptive guidance for launching the optimal referral priority program and rationalizes common referral schemes seen in practice.

Keywords: queueing, referrals, priority, customer acquisition, system throughput, mechanism design

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Luyi, Invite Your Friend and You’ll Move Up in Line: Optimal Design of Referral Priority Programs (October 30, 2018). Forthcoming, Manufacturing & Service Operations Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3275449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3275449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
P Afèche
Incentive-compatible revenue management in queueing systems: Optimal strategic delay
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 423 - 443 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P Afèche , H Mendelson
Pricing and priority auctions in queueing systems with a generalized delay cost structure
Management Science , volume 50 , issue 7 , p. 869 - 882 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Afèche , M Pavlin
Optimal price-lead time menus for queues with customer choice: Priorities, pooling and strategic delay
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 8 , p. 2412 - 2436 Posted: 2016
Crossref
G Allon , A Bassamboo , I Gurvich
We will be right with you": Managing customer expectations with vague promises and cheap talk
Operations Research , volume 59 , issue 6 , p. 1382 - 1394 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Luyi Yang , Shiliang Cui , Zhongbin Wang
Design of COVID-19 Testing Queues
Production and Operations Management, Forthcoming · 62 Pages · Posted: 2 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 8 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 339
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Setareh Farajollahzadeh , Ming Hu
Potty Parity
Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3914880 · 62 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 4 Jun 2025 · Downloads: 916
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chenguang (Allen) Wu , Chen Jin , Ying-Ju Chen
<div> Rewards or Upgrades? Incentive Designs in Referral <span>Programs</span> </div>
<span style="color: rgb(80, 80, 80); font-family: NexusSerifWebPro-Italic; font-style: italic; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">Management Information Systems Quarterly, Forthcoming</span> · 40 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2022 · Last revised: 4 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 150
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,549
RANK
390,788
3 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Johns Hopkins Carey Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies