Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Note on Karl Pearson’s 1900 Chi-Squared Test: Two Derivations of the Asymptotic Distribution, and Uses in Goodness of Fit and Contingency Tests of Independence, and a Comparison with the Exact Sample Variance Chi-Square Result

29 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2018

Timothy Falcon Crack

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Date Written: November 14, 2018

Abstract

Karl Pearson’s chi-squared test is widely known and used, both as a goodness-of-fit test for hypothesized distributions or frequencies, and in tests of independence in contingency tables. The test was introduced in Pearson (1900), but the derivation in that paper is almost incomprehensible. Two derivations of the asymptotic distribution are given here. The first uses joint characteristic functions, and the second uses a multivariate central limit theorem. Goodness-of-fit tests and contingency table tests of independence are discussed, and the asymptotic chi-square distribution result for Pearson’s test statistic is compared and contrasted with the exact chi-square result for the sample variance estimator.

Keywords: Pearson Chi-Squared Test, Asymptotic Distribution, Joint Characteristic Function, Multivariate Central Limit Theorem

JEL Classification: C12

Suggested Citation:

Crack, Timothy Falcon, A Note on Karl Pearson’s 1900 Chi-Squared Test: Two Derivations of the Asymptotic Distribution, and Uses in Goodness of Fit and Contingency Tests of Independence, and a Comparison with the Exact Sample Variance Chi-Square Result (November 14, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3284255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3284255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Frank Ayers
Matrices, Schaum's Outline Series Posted: 1962
W G Cochrane
The Distribution of Quadratic Forms in a Normal System, with Applications to the Analysis of Covariance
Mathematical Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical Society , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 178 - 191 Posted: 1934-04
Crossref
Timothy Crack , Michael J Falcon , Malcolm A Osborne , Mark J Crack , Osborne
A Constructive Demonstration of the Distribution of the Student-t Test Statistic for the Mean Posted: 2008
Harald Cramér
Mathematical Methods of Statistics Posted: 1946
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
714
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,096
RANK
82,779
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies