Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On 'Introducing Excess Return on Time-Scaled Contributions': A Clarification

Journal of Alternative Investments, Vol. 21, No. 2: 84-86, 2018

Posted: 12 Dec 2018

Carlo Alberto Magni

Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE) - School of Doctorate E4E (Engineering for Economics-Economics for Engineering)

Date Written: February 2018

Abstract

In Jiang's (2017, JAI, 9 (4): 77–91), the author proposes an interesting metric, which is a special case of Average Internal Rate of Return (AIRR), introduced in Magni (2010). In the paper, the author also deals with Economic AIRR (EAIRR) (Magni 2013) and ICM-based AROI (Magni 2011, Altshuler and Magni 2015). Jiang warns the reader against potential violations of value additivity of EAIRR and ICM-based AROI. This paper shows that there is no potential violation of value additivity in either case if the correct procedure for computing EAIRR and ICM-based AROI is followed.

Keywords: portfolios, performance measurement, AIRR, AROI, return, Index Comparison Method

JEL Classification: G11, G12

Suggested Citation:

Magni, Carlo Alberto, On 'Introducing Excess Return on Time-Scaled Contributions': A Clarification (February 2018). Journal of Alternative Investments, Vol. 21, No. 2: 84-86, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3287899
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
992
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies