Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discriminant Analysis to the Postulated International Perspectives of Governmental Accounting and Reporting Models

30 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2018

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: November 26, 2018

Abstract

Governmental accounting and reporting models have shown issues of differences in the postulated international perspective in this regard. This paper investigates which governmental and accounting models most cause the differences among countries. Using a discriminant analysis with linear discriminant function, this paper finds that models of governmental budgetary accounting model, governmental integrated reporting model, the no clarity of governmental sustainability and integrated reporting models, and the governmental mixed accounting model are the most significant cause of differences and separations of governments, particularly for the top countries of high economic indications.

Keywords: governmental accounting, governmental reporting, postulated international perspectives, comparability, transparency, full disclosure

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Discriminant Analysis to the Postulated International Perspectives of Governmental Accounting and Reporting Models (November 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3290455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3290455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
T Agasisti , P D Milano , G Catalano , F D Carlo , A Erbacci
Accrual Accounting in Italian Universities: a Technical Perspective Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Antonia , J D Jesus , S M Jorge
Governmental Accounting Versus National Accounts: Implications of Different Accounting Bases on EU Member-States Central Government Defict/Surplus. Available at: ISCTE -Instituto Universitário de Lisboa BRU-IUL (Unide-IUL) Av. Forças Armadas 1649-126 Posted: 2001
N Aversano , J Christiaens
Governmental Financial Reporting of Heritage Assets from a User Needs Perspective Posted: 2014
Crossref
B Benito , I Brusca , V Montesions
The Harmonization of Government Financial Information Systems: The Role of IPSASs Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
RANK
812,529
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies