Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of Data Envelopment Analysis in Auditing

United States Patent Application Publication, Pub. No.:US 2005/0288980A1, Pub. Date: December 29, 2005.

Posted: 2 Jan 2019

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Sungsoo Kim

Rutgers Business School - Camden; University of Minnesota - Minneapolis

Raymond L. Raab

University of Minnesota, Duluth - Labovitz School of Business and Economics (LSBE)

Date Written: December 29, 2005

Abstract

A data processing procedure, DEA (Data Envelopment Analysis) is described as as an analytical tool in audit engagement. DEA receives data inputs from from financial statements of a plurality of clients, constructs efficiency frontiers and evaluates relative income efficiencies. DEA can be used in the overall review stage to detect any anomalies and to assess the reasonableness of financial statements. Application of DEA can significantly minimize errors in an audit judgment by providing accurate and reliable benchmarks and red flags at a reasonable low cost.

Note: Also see, Feroz, Kim and Raab, "Analytical Procedures: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach" (2005).

Keywords: Patent, DEA, Analytics, Income Efficiency, Input-Output Models, Financial Statements, Efficiency, Audit, Red Flags, Risk Management, Capital Markets, SEC, PCAOB

JEL Classification: C44, C61, C67, D61, G14, G30, M11, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H. and Kim, Sungsoo and Raab, Raymond L., Application of Data Envelopment Analysis in Auditing (December 29, 2005). United States Patent Application Publication, Pub. No.:US 2005/0288980A1, Pub. Date: December 29, 2005., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292770
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
374
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Economics Educator: Courses, Cases & Teaching eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies