Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects on Anchoring of Increasing Quantities of Disconfirming Evidence

International Journal of Management and Decision Making, 2018

37 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2019

Tom Downen

University of North Carolina Wilmington

Zhan Furner

East Carolina University - College of Business

Bryan Cataldi

Butler University

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

Anchoring has been shown to influence judgments in a wide variety of contexts, often in a dysfunctional manner (particularly when anchors are deemed unreliable). Identifying methods for mitigating the effects of anchors is important. Our experimental study utilizes three abstract settings and arbitrary anchor values. We find strong anchoring effects in initial judgments. Providing disconfirming evidence of moderate helpfulness does, however, reduce the anchoring effects. Specifically, providing one or two items of disconfirming information is shown to have significant incremental benefits in reducing or even eliminating anchoring effects. However, surprisingly, providing three items of disconfirming information, in our setting, did not further reduce anchoring, suggesting some diminishing effect of additional evidence. This is consistent with prior research suggesting that individuals adjust until they are “close enough”, and then stop considering additional information. Our results have implications for a wide variety of judgment contexts, and the results are encouraging in suggesting that a relatively small quantity of disconfirming evidence could be sufficient for overcoming anchoring.

Suggested Citation:

Downen, Tom and Furner, Zhan and Cataldi, Bryan, The Effects on Anchoring of Increasing Quantities of Disconfirming Evidence (October 1, 2018). International Journal of Management and Decision Making, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3304073
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
B J Adame
Training in the Mitigation of Anchoring Bias: A Test of the Considerthe-Opposite Strategy
Learning and Motivation , volume 53 , p. 36 - 48 Posted: 2016
Crossref
G Adomavicius , J C Bockstedt , S P Curley , J Zhang
Effects of Online Recommendations on Consumers' Willingness to Pay
Information Systems Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 102 Posted: 2017
Crossref
S K Asare
The Auditor's Going-Concern Decision: Interaction of Task Variables and the Sequential Processing of Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 379 - 393 Posted: 1992
H S Asay , T Brown , M W Nelson , T J Wilks
The Effects of Out-ofRegime Guidance on Auditor Judgments About Appropriate Application of Accounting Standards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 1026 - 1047 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
601,090
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies