Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the misleading reporting of regression coefficients

7 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2019

Stephen Brown

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Date Written: January 7, 2019

Abstract

Accounting journals regularly include articles where regression coefficients are estimated and reported. However, the level of accuracy with which the estimated coefficients are reported is often not consistent within a single paper. Furthermore, in almost all cases, the level of accuracy claimed for the estimated coefficients, by re porting to so many significant figures, is far in excess of the level of accuracy that is plausible given the reported t-statistics and hence the implied standard errors of the estimated coefficients.

Keywords: reporting accuracy, empirical research, presentation of data

JEL Classification: A10, C00, C01, C18

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Stephen, On the misleading reporting of regression coefficients (January 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3311730 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3311730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
637
RANK
833,930
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies