Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Benchmarking of Client Disclosures

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 25 Jan 2019

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Phillip J. Quinn

University of Washington Foster School of Business

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

We examine auditors’ disclosure benchmarking, which we define as auditors’ acquisition of non-client financial statement information for the purpose of evaluating a client’s financial statement information. Employing a novel dataset that captures auditors’ access of nonclient annual and quarterly SEC filings on EDGAR, we predict and find that auditors engage in disclosure benchmarking when auditing clients faced with higher levels of reporting complexity, financial reporting risk, and litigation risk. Lastly, we predict that auditors incorporate the information they obtain via disclosure benchmarking into their audit. Consistent with our prediction, disclosure benchmarking is positively associated with a client’s financial statement disaggregation, and client footnotes exhibit greater comparability to targeted non-clients’ footnotes after disclosure benchmarking. Overall, this study offers an empirical look into the “black box” of the audit process by examining auditor benchmarking and its effects on client financial reports.

Keywords: disclosure benchmarking, audit process, information acquisition, client financial reporting, EDGAR filings

JEL Classification: K22, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Michael S. and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Quinn, Phillip J. and Thornock, Jacob, Auditor Benchmarking of Client Disclosures (December 1, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3312841
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies