Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fuzzy Profit Shifting: A Model for Optimal Tax-induced Transfer Pricing with Fuzzy Arm's Length Parameter

29 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019

Alex Rathke

FEA-RP, University of São Paulo

Date Written: January 12, 2019

Abstract

This paper proposes a model of optimal tax-induced transfer pricing with a fuzzy arm's length parameter. Fuzzy numbers provide a suitable structure for modelling the ambiguity that is intrinsic to the arm's length parameter. For the usual conditions regarding the anti-shifting mechanisms, the optimal transfer price becomes a maximising a-cut of the fuzzy arm's length parameter. Nonetheless, we show that it is profitable for firms to choose any maximising transfer price if the probability of tax audit is sufficiently low, even if the chosen price is considered a completely non-arm's length price by tax authorities. In this case, we derive the necessary and sufficient conditions to prevent this extreme shifting strategy.

Keywords: fuzzy profit shifting, transfer pricing, tax evasion, tax enforcement, tax penalty

JEL Classification: F23, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Rathke, Alex, Fuzzy Profit Shifting: A Model for Optimal Tax-induced Transfer Pricing with Fuzzy Arm's Length Parameter (January 12, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314550 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis , volume 1 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and eld studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E J Bartelsman , R M Beetsma
Why pay more? corporate tax avoidance through transfer pricing in oecd countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 9 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Becker , R B Davies , G Jakobs
The economics of advance pricing agreements
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 134 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
470
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies