Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Accounting Asset Informativeness

Posted: 17 Jan 2019 Last revised: 7 Jun 2021

Qi Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Katherine Schipper

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Ning Zhang

Queen's University, Smith School of Business

Date Written: January 14, 2019

Abstract

We develop and validate an empirical measure of the informativeness of accounting assets in measuring firm-specific economic capital, an important determinant of both cash flows and intrinsic values. Our validation tests show that the asset-informativeness measure is sensitive to differences in both accounting methods and implementation decisions at the firm level, and corresponds to the way equity investors use the information in accounting assets. We find that accounting assets contain substantial information about firms’ productive capacity (economic capital) and the information is not summarized in several earnings attributes often associated with earnings quality.

Keywords: Asset measurement; Asset informativeness; Economic capital

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Qi and Schipper, Katherine and Zhang, Ning, Measuring Accounting Asset Informativeness (January 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3315505
 Not Available for Download
0 References
2 Citations
Rebecca N. Hann , Heedong Kim , Wenfeng Wang , Yue Zheng
Information Frictions and Productivity Dispersion: The Role of Accounting Information
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 223 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Charles Hsu , Qinglu Jin , Zhiming Ma , Jing Zhou
Does voluntary balance sheet disclosure mitigate post-earnings-announcement drift?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 106821 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,183
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies