Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
B-Spline Modelling & Fitting the Term Structure

15 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2019

Nerissa Arviana

Atma Jaya Makassar University - Accounting Department

Nofina Sari

Atma Jaya Makassar University - Accounting Department

Date Written: January 22, 2019

Abstract

We explain how the B-spline interpolation of signals and, in particular, of images can be efﬁciently performed by linear ﬁltering. Based on the seminal two-step method proposed by Unser et al. in 1991, we propose two slightly diﬀerent preﬁltering algorithms whose precisions are proven to be controlled thanks to a rigorous boundary handling. This paper contains all the information, theoretical and practical, required to perform eﬃciently B-spline interpolation for any order and any boundary extension. We describe precisely how to evaluate the kernel and to compute the B-spline interpolator parameters. We show experimentally that increasing the order improves the interpolation quality. As a fundamental application we also provide an implementation of homographic transformation of images using B-spline interpolation.

Keywords: B-Spline Modelling, Fitting the Term Structure

Suggested Citation:

Arviana, Nerissa and Sari, Nofina, B-Spline Modelling & Fitting the Term Structure (January 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3320576 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3320576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
T Briand , P Monasse
Theory and Practice of Image B-Spline Interpolation
from HAL: archives-ouvertes Posted: 2018-07-23
Crossref
M Choudhry , D Joannas , R Pereira , R Pienaar
Capital Market Instruments Posted: 2005
Crossref
I Zeid , M.-G Hill
B-Spline Curve Posted: 2010-10-19
Marselinus Asri
The Effect Accounting Conservatism in Emerging Market – Using Lo Eko Model
Pages: 50 Posted: 11 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
896
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies