Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating Heterogeneous Reactions to Experimental Treatments

MPI Collective Goods Discussion Paper, No. 2019/1

43 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2019 Last revised: 14 Jan 2020

Christoph Engel

Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective Goods; University of Bonn - Faculty of Law & Economics; Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR), Erasmus School of Law, Rotterdam Institute of Law and Economics, Students; Universität Osnabrück - Faculty of Law

Date Written: January 11, 2020

Abstract

Frequently in experiments there is not only variance in the reaction of participants to treatment. The heterogeneity is patterned: discernible types of participants react differently. In principle, a finite mixture model is well suited to simultaneously estimate the probability that a given participant belongs to a certain type, and the reaction of this type to treatment. Yet often, finite mixture models need more data than the experiment provides. The approach requires ex ante knowledge about the number of types. Finite mixture models are hard to estimate for panel data, which is what experiments often generate. For repeated experiments, this paper offers a simple two-step alternative that is much less data hungry, that allows to find the number of types in the data, and that allows for the estimation of panel data models. It combines machine learning methods with classic frequentist statistics.

Keywords: heterogeneous treatment effect, finite mixture model, panel data, two-step approach, machine learning, CART

JEL Classification: C14, C23, C91

Suggested Citation:

Engel, Christoph, Estimating Heterogeneous Reactions to Experimental Treatments (January 11, 2020). MPI Collective Goods Discussion Paper, No. 2019/1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3322322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3322322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Daniel Ackerberg , Xiaohong Chen , Jinyong Hahn
A practical asymptotic variance estimator for two-step semiparametric estimators
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 481 - 498 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Ahmed Alaa , Mihaela Schaar
Limits of estimating heterogeneous treatment effects: Guidelines for practical algorithm design
International Conference on Machine Learning , p. 129 - 138 Posted: 2018
Susan Athey , Guido Imbens
Recursive partitioning for heterogeneous causal effects
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , volume 113 , p. 7353 - 7360 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Nicholas Bardsley , G Peter , Moffatt
The experimetrics of public goods: Inferring motivations from contributions
Theory and Decision , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 193 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,692
RANK
662,989
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies