Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Analysis of Primark Stores Ltd. With Regard to a Stock Exchange Floatation (IPO)

International Journal of Management, 7 (1), pp. 91-112

Posted: 11 Feb 2019

Paul Eisenberg

University of Derby; University of Portsmouth

Date Written: January 27, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this work is the analysis of one of the worldwide leading retailers, the Primark Stores Ltd. (Primark) with regard to potential listing on the London stock exchange.

The methodology applies the profitability and efficiency, short-term solvency and liquidity, long-term solvency and stability as well as shareholder and investment ratios. The PESTEL framework is used to evaluate the political, economic, social, technological, environmental and legal background of Primark`s operations. The SWOT model demonstrates the company`s financial and business strength and weaknesses along with the opportunities and threats of the retail industry. Regarding the public offering, the probable share price is calculated by the net assets method and the dividend valuation model. Based on the recommended share price, the theoretical price/earnings ratio and a market capitalisation of Primark are discussed. A forecast of future net profits is attempted with the simple average growth model and the trend line extrapolation method. Corporate governance implications following the stock exchange floatation are discussed against the UK Corporate Governance Code and academic literature.

The findings provide for a strong business case grounded on a cost leadership strategy, which would be honoured by the stock market ranking in the upper 2nd Quartile of the FTSE sector companies.

The results may be subject to limitations arising from accounting numbers on which the calculations are based.

The originality of this study is derived from the holistic approach covering a wide range of financial ratios, models and methods that have not been applied yet in the academic literature to Primark.

Keywords: Retail, PESTEL Framework, SWOT Analysis, Financial Ratios Analysis

JEL Classification: L0, L1, L14, L16, M10, M11, M20, M21, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Eisenberg, Paul, Financial Analysis of Primark Stores Ltd. With Regard to a Stock Exchange Floatation (IPO) (January 27, 2019). International Journal of Management, 7 (1), pp. 91-112, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324316
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
761
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies