Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors are Known by the Companies They Keep

72 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2019 Last revised: 4 Feb 2020

Jonathan A Cook

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zachary T Kowaleski

University of Texas at Austin

Michael Minnis

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Andrew Sutherland

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: January 31, 2020

Abstract

We study the role of reputation in auditor-client matching. Using 1.2 million employment records from US broker-dealers, we find that broker-dealer clients of the same auditor have similar financial adviser misconduct profiles. Our estimates indicate that variation in client misconduct behavior is nearly half as important as variation in client size in explaining matches. Auditors adjust their portfolios when presented with new information about client behavior, and those with the most significant reputation concerns are least likely to deal with high misconduct clients. Finally, we find that an auditor’s reputation for accepting high misconduct clients predicts their new clients’ future misconduct. Together, our results present new evidence on how reputation affects audit relationships, and the consequences of auditors’ reputation concerns for client behavior. Our results also indicate an unintended consequence of audit mandates: non-discerning auditors emerge to serve clients with low endogenous demand for auditing.

Keywords: auditing, audit market structure, broker-dealers, financial advisers, financial intermediation, financial misconduct, reputation

JEL Classification: M21, M41, M42, G24, G28, D14, D18

Suggested Citation:

Cook, Jonathan A and Kowaleski, Zach and Minnis, Michael and Sutherland, Andrew and Zehms, Karla M., Auditors are Known by the Companies They Keep (January 31, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3326595 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3326595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Abdulkadiroğlu , P A Pathak , A E Roth
The New York City high school match
American Economic Review , volume 95 , issue 2 , p. 364 - 367 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Abdulkadiroğlu , P A Pathak , A E Roth
Strategy-proofness versus efficiency in matching with indifferences: Redesigning the NYC high school match
American Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 5 , p. 1954 - 78 Posted: 2009
Crossref
O Akkus , J A Cookson , A Hortacsu
The determinants of bank mergers: A revealed preference analysis
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 8 , p. 2241 - 2258 Posted: 2015
Crossref
E M Azevedo , J D Leshno
A supply and demand framework for two-sided matching markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 124 , issue 5 , p. 1235 - 1268 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
816
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,979
RANK
69,192
8 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies