Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Engagement in Earnings Conference Calls

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2019 Last revised: 31 Mar 2022

Kristina M. Rennekamp

SC Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Mani Sethuraman

Cornell University - Department of Accounting; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Blake A. Steenhoven

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: February 7, 2022

Abstract

Research on conference calls documents that the question and answer (Q&A) portion is informative to markets. However, prior studies focus on the attributes of the participating individuals, primarily managers and analysts. We instead use the conversation as our unit of analysis, and examine whether conversational engagement between managers and analysts in earnings calls is informative to market participants. Using an experiment, we first demonstrate that linguistic style matching (LSM), a form of verbal coordination, is a reasonable empirical proxy for conversational engagement. We next use a quasi-experiment to confirm that investors can detect differences in engagement. Finally, using a hand-collected archival dataset comprised of audio recordings and textual transcripts from over 2,400 earnings calls, we show that LSM in manager-analyst conversations during the Q&A is positively associated with absolute stock returns during the conversation, suggesting that conversations with greater engagement are more informative to capital markets and facilitate price formation.

Keywords: Conference Calls, Linguistic Style Matching, Engagement, Price Formation, Market Microstructure

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rennekamp, Kristina M. and Sethuraman, Mani and Steenhoven, Blake, Engagement in Earnings Conference Calls (February 7, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3329077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3329077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R K Atiase
Predisclosure Information, Firm Capitalization, and Security Price Behavior Around Earnings Announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
O E Barndorff-Nielsen , P R Hansen , A Lunde , N Shephard
Realized Kernels in Practice: Trades and Quotes , volume 12 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2009
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , J Wertz , C Zhu
Why do individual investors disregard accounting information? The roles of information awareness and acquisition costs
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 84 Posted: 2019
E Blankespoor , B Hendricks , G Miller
Perceptions and Price: Evidence from CEO presentations at IPO roadshows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 327 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
838
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,606
RANK
66,809
20 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies