Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Regularization Approach for Estimation and Variable Selection in High Dimensional Regression

49 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2019

Yiannis Dendramis

University of Cyprus - Department of Accounting and Finance

Liudas Giraitis

Queen Mary

George Kapetanios

King's College, London

Date Written: December 27, 2018

Abstract

Model selection and estimation are important topics in econometric analysis which can become considerably complicated in high dimensional settings, where the set of possible regressors can become larger than the set of available observations. For large scale problems the penalized regression methods (e.g. Lasso) have become the de facto benchmark that can effectively trade off parsimony and fit. In this paper we introduce a regularized estimation and model selection approach that is based on sparse large covariance matrix estimation, introduced by Bickel and Levina (2008) and extended by Dendramis, Giraitis, and Kapetanios (2018). We provide asymptotic and small sample results that indicate that our approach can be an important alternative to the penalized regression. Moreover, we also introduce a number of extensions that can improve the asymptotic and small sample performance of the proposed method. The usefulness of what we propose is illustrated via Monte Carlo exercises and an empirical application in macroeconomic forecasting.

Keywords: large dimensional regression, sparse matrix, thresholding, shrinkage, model selection

Suggested Citation:

Dendramis, Yiannis and Giraitis, Liudas and Kapetanios, George, A Regularization Approach for Estimation and Variable Selection in High Dimensional Regression (December 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3330078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3330078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J Bai , And S Ng
Determining the number of factors in approximate factor models
Econometrica , p. 191 - 221 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Bickel , And E Levina
Covariance Regularization by Thresholding
The Annals of Statistics , volume 36 , p. 2577 - 2604 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P Buhlmann , And S Van De Geer
Statistics for High-Dimensional Data: Methods, Theory and Applications Posted: 2011
Crossref
T Cai , W Liu
Adaptive Thresholding for Sparse Covariance Matrix Estimation
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 106 , p. 672 - 684 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
RANK
556,453
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric Model Construction, Estimation & Selection eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies