Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Search of Meaning: Lessons, Resources and Next Steps for Computational Analysis of Financial Discourse

Forthcoming in Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

94 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2019 Last revised: 20 Mar 2019

Mahmoud El-Haj

Lancaster University - School of Computing and Communications; Lancaster University

Paul Rayson

Lancaster University

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Steven Young

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Vasiliki Simaki

Lancaster University, Department of Linguistics

Date Written: March 2019

Abstract

We critically assess mainstream accounting and finance research applying methods from computational linguistics (CL) to study financial discourse. We also review common themes and innovations in the literature and assess the incremental contributions of work applying CL methods over manual content analysis. Key conclusions emerging from our analysis are: (a) accounting and finance research is behind the curve in terms of CL methods generally and word sense disambiguation in particular; (b) implementation issues mean the proposed benefits of CL are often less pronounced than proponents suggest; (c) structural issues limit practical relevance; and (d) CL methods and high quality manual analysis represent complementary approaches to analyzing financial discourse. We describe four CL tools that have yet to gain traction in mainstream AF research but which we believe offer promising ways to enhance the study of meaning in financial discourse. The four approaches are named entity recognition, summarization, semantics and corpus linguistics.

Keywords: Annual Reports, 10-K, Conference Calls, Earnings Announcements, NLP, Machine Learning, Corpus Linguistics, Semantics

Suggested Citation:

El-Haj, Mahmoud and Rayson, Paul and Walker, Martin and Young, Steven and Simaki, Vasiliki, In Search of Meaning: Lessons, Resources and Next Steps for Computational Analysis of Financial Discourse (March 2019). Forthcoming in Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3330757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
218 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Abuzeina , F Al-Anzi
Employing fisher discriminant analysis for Arabic text classification
Computers & Electrical Engineering , volume 66 , p. 474 - 486 Posted: 2017
Crossref
S Adolphs , B Brown , R Carter , P Crawford , O Sahota
Applying corpus linguistics in a health care context
Journal of Applied Linguistics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 28 Posted: 2004
Crossref
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Mahmoud El-Haj , Paulo Alves , Paul Rayson , Martin Walker , Steven Young
Retrieving, Classifying and Analysing Narrative Commentary in Unstructured (Glossy) Annual Reports Published as PDF Files
Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 1 Jul 2016 · Last revised: 9 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 1,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,072
RANK
243,598
1 Citations
218 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies