Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Binomial Model with Edgeworth Expansion on Particular Circumstances

(EAMR) EUROPEAN ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT REVIEW, VOLUME 5, ISSUE 1, ARTICLE 4, 69-93, NOVEMBER 2018

25 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2019

Gastón Silverio Milanesi

National University of the South

Emilio El Alabi

Independent

Date Written: October 22, 2018

Abstract

Contexts with high volatility and extreme events condition the value of the firm, its tax savings and continuity. These conditions must be contemplated for the employed valuation model. In that sense, the present paper’ basis is the classic binomial model incorporating: a) firm contingent states of continuity or dissolution; b) tax saving valuation like a basket of real options, and c) extreme events by Edgeworth transformation. The paper structures in the following manner: first it develops the binomial function changed with the Edgeworth extension and the construction of implicit binomial lattice. Then it develops a valuation adapted to the binomial model with Edgeworth expansion that incorporates contingent tax savings, continuity or liquidation scenarios and cost of bankruptcy. With a hypothetical case it is illustrated its functioning, and comparing the results obtained between situations with kurtosis and skewness or normally. Finally the main conclusions are exposed.

Keywords: Contingent States, Real Options, Tax Savings, Edgeworth Expansion

Suggested Citation:

Milanesi, Gastón Silverio and El Alabi, Emilio, A Binomial Model with Edgeworth Expansion on Particular Circumstances (October 22, 2018). (EAMR) EUROPEAN ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT REVIEW, VOLUME 5, ISSUE 1, ARTICLE 4, 69-93, NOVEMBER 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3333190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
L Booth
Finding Value Where None Exists: Pitfalls in Using Adjusted Present Value
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 8 - 17 Posted: 2002
Crossref
L Booth
Capital Cash Flow, APV and Valuation
European Financial Management , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 48 Posted: 2007
Crossref
L Brandao , J Dyer , W Hahn
Using Binomial Decision Trees to Solve Real Options Valuations Problems
Journal of Decision Analysis , issue 2 , p. 69 - 88 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Broadie , O Kaya
A Binomial Lattice Method for Pricing Corporate Debt and Modelling Chapter 11 Procedings
Journal of Finance and Quantitative Analysis , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 279 - 312 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Resource Based Strategy & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies