Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Learning, Earnings Signals, and Stock Returns

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2019

Peng-Chia Chiu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Timothy Haight

Loyola Marymount University

Date Written: March 7, 2019

Abstract

Prior studies show that investor learning about earnings-based return predictors from academic research erodes return predictability. However, the signaling power of “bottom-line” earnings has declined over time, which complicates assessments of investor learning about profitability signals underlying earnings. We show that modified earnings variables with lower susceptibility to signal weakening exhibit rates of return attenuation that are 30-64% lower than rates for bottom-line earnings variables over our sample period. Notably, return gaps between bottom-line and less susceptible variables are widest in recent years, especially within non-overlapping samples and samples with weak bottom-line signals (e.g., special items, losses, fourth fiscal quarter). Our results hold after controlling for risk factors known to predict returns, they do not appear to be attributable to ex ante earnings volatility, and they are robust to alternative sample selection criteria, sub-period partitions, and portfolio holding windows. Overall, our results suggest that while investor learning is apparent in the data, learning efforts to date have been suboptimal at exploiting profitability signals within firms’ earnings streams.

Keywords: investor learning; earnings properties; market efficiency; stock returns

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G13, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Peng-Chia and Haight, Timothy, Investor Learning, Earnings Signals, and Stock Returns (March 7, 2019). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3348325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
F Akbas , C Jiang , P D Koch
The trend in firm profitability and the cross-section of stock returns
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J R Anderson , L M Reder , H A Simon
Situated learning and education
Educational Researcher , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 5 - 11 Posted: 1996
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , E Bartov , L Faurel
Post loss/profit announcement drift
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
571
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,464
RANK
109,965
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies