Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges to Experimental Audit JDM Research and the Role of Online Platforms in Resolving these Challenges

44 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2019 Last revised: 10 Dec 2020

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Kristina M. Rennekamp

SC Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Ken Trotman

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: December 9, 2020

Abstract

We survey experienced experimental researchers to understand their beliefs about the biggest challenges facing audit JDM research. By far, the biggest challenge identified by respondents is access to experienced participants. This creates a major problem as examining important research questions often requires hard-to-access professionals and the availability of these participants has decreased over time. Other important challenges to audit JDM research include the publication process (including demands for multiple experiments in a single study involving experienced participants) and demonstrating practical contributions. We also compare responses about the challenges facing financial and managerial accounting researchers, in order to better understand the problems that are unique to audit researchers. We discuss how the challenges identified might be either mitigated or exacerbated by the use of various online platforms. We discuss data quality issues and potential solutions, provide suggestions on potential new sources of participants and possible ways forward for audit JDM research.

Keywords: Experimental research, auditing, online platforms, JDM research, Mechanical Turk, Dynata, Qualtrics Panels

Suggested Citation:

Leiby, Justin and Rennekamp, Kristina M. and Trotman, Ken, Challenges to Experimental Audit JDM Research and the Role of Online Platforms in Resolving these Challenges (December 9, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3350692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3350692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
J Abbey , M Meloy
Attention by design: Using attention checks to detect inattentive respondents and improve data quality
Journal of Operations Management , volume 53 , issue 56 , p. 63 - 70 Posted: 2017-11
Crossref
M Abdolmohammadi , A Wright
An examination of the effects of experience and task complexity on audit judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987
C Antoun , C Zhang , F Conrad , M Schober
Comparisons of online recruitment strategies for convenience samples: Craigslist, Google AdWords, Facebook, and Amazon Mechanical Turk
Field Methods , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 246 Posted: 2016
Hamilton Scott Asay , Ryan Guggenmos , Kathryn Kadous , Lisa L. Koonce , Robert Libby
Theory Testing and Process Evidence in Accounting Experiments
H. Scott Asay, Ryan Guggenmos, Kathryn Kadous, Lisa Koonce, Robert Libby; Theory Testing and Process Evidence in Accounting Experiments. The Accounting Review 2021; doi: https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-1001 Pages: 50 Posted: 25 Nov 2019 Last revised: 20 Dec 2021
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,289
RANK
113,544
21 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies