Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimation and Inference in Spatial Models with Dominant Units

USC-INET Research Paper No. 19-06

172 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2019 Last revised: 23 Jun 2020

M. Hashem Pesaran

University of Cambridge; University of Southern California - Department of Economics

Cynthia Fan Yang

Florida State University - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 22, 2020

Abstract

In spatial econometrics literature estimation and inference are carried out assuming that the matrix of spatial or network connections has uniformly bounded absolute column sums in the number of units, n, in the network. This paper relaxes this restriction and allows for one or more units to have pervasive effects in the network. The linear-quadratic central limit theorem of Kelejian and Prucha (2001) is generalized to allow for such dominant units, and the asymptotic properties of the GMM estimators are established in this more general setting. A new bias-corrected method of moments (BMM) estimator is also proposed that avoids the problem of weak instruments by self-instrumenting the spatially lagged dependent variable. Both cases of homoskedastic and heteroskedastic errors are considered and the associated estimators are shown to be consistent and asymptotically normal, depending on the rate at which the maximum column sum of the weights matrix rises with n. The small sample properties of GMM and BMM estimators are investigated by Monte Carlo experiments and shown to be satisfactory. An empirical application to sectoral price changes in the US over the pre- and post-2008 financial crisis is also provided. It is shown that the share of capital can be estimated reasonably well from the degree of sectoral interdependence using the input-output tables, despite the evidence of dominant sectors being present in the US economy.

Keywords: SAR models, central limit theorems for linear-quadratic forms, dominant units, heteroskedastic errors, bias-corrected method of moments, US input-output tables, capital share

JEL Classification: C13, C21, C23, R15

Suggested Citation:

Pesaran, M. Hashem and Yang, Cynthia Fan, Estimation and Inference in Spatial Models with Dominant Units (April 22, 2020). USC-INET Research Paper No. 19-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3351318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3351318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Daron Acemoglu , Vasco M. Carvalho , Asuman E. Ozdaglar , Alireza Tahbaz-Salehi
The Network Origins of Aggregate Fluctuations
MIT Department of Economics Working Paper No. 11-23 Pages: 36 Posted: 22 Oct 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Anselin
Spatial Econometrics: Methods and Models , volume 4 Posted: 1988
Crossref
N Bailey , S Holly , M H Pesaran
A two-stage approach to spatio-temporal analysis with strong and weak cross-sectional dependence
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 280 Posted: 2016
Crossref
N Bailey , G Kapetanios , M H Pesaran
Exponent of cross-sectional dependence: Estimation and inference
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 31 , issue 6 , p. 929 - 960 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
336,212
5 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies