Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spoiled for Choice: Does the Selection of Sustainability Datasets Matter?

61 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019 Last revised: 25 Jul 2019

Jan Diebecker

University of Münster - Accounting Center

Christian Rose

University of Münster - Accounting Center Münster

Friedrich Sommer

University of Bayreuth

Date Written: July 24, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the qualitative and quantitative differences and similarities between two prominent sustainability datasets, namely, the sustainability ratings developed by MSCI ESG KLD STATS (formerly known as KLD) and Thomson Reuters ESG (formerly known as ASSET4). We find substantial qualitative differences between the two sources’ sustainability measures, which are also reflected quantitatively through weak correlations between their scores. Our analysis of individual sustainability pillars reveals substantial differences, especially in social and governmental topics. Additionally, we examine the impact of dataset selection on empirical results by analyzing the effect of corporate sustainability performance on the cost of equity. Following the methodology of El Ghoul et al. (2011), we find that corporate sustainability has a significantly negative effect when using MSCI ESG KLD STATS’s and the original ASSET4 measurements but not when using Thomson Reuters ESG’s measurements. Further analysis indicates that dissimilarities in the consideration of economic aspects can explain the results. The results of this paper suggest that researchers should choose sustainability ratings carefully, adjust differences between and within datasets, and conduct robustness checks to substantiate their theoretical justifications.

Keywords: corporate sustainability performance, corporate social responsibility, sustainability ratings, cost of equity

JEL Classification: M41, G30, Q01

Suggested Citation:

Diebecker, Jan and Rose, Christian and Sommer, Friedrich, Spoiled for Choice: Does the Selection of Sustainability Datasets Matter? (July 24, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3359508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3359508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
476
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,572
RANK
137,584
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies