Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Tax Authority Monitoring

Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming.

Posted: 28 Apr 2019 Last revised: 19 Feb 2021

Andrew Finley

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

James Stekelberg

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 18, 2021

Abstract

Despite growing academic interest in tax authority monitoring, the literature remains lacking a summary measure of realized tax authority monitoring that can be constructed from firms’ publicly available financial statement information. The purpose of this study is to develop such a measure. Specifically, we view unrecognized tax benefit (UTB) releases due to settlements with the tax authority to indicate greater tax authority monitoring, and UTB releases due to lapses in the statute of limitations to indicate lesser tax authority monitoring. Among other tests, we validate a new measure of tax authority monitoring utilizing data from UTB releases by documenting its positive associations with predicted determinants of tax authority monitoring and by showing that it varies across time in expected ways. We believe our measure should be useful to future researchers studying tax authority monitoring in a variety of settings.

Keywords: Tax Authority Monitoring; Tax Enforcement; Unrecognized Tax Benefits; External Monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Finley, Andrew and Stekelberg, James, Measuring Tax Authority Monitoring (February 18, 2021). Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3361114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3361114
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies