Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Return Autocorrelations and Expected Option Returns

Management Science

68 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2019 Last revised: 12 Mar 2024

Yoontae Jeon

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Raymond Kan

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Gang Li

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, CUHK Business School

Date Written: March 31, 2019

Abstract

We show that the return autocorrelation of underlying stock is an important determinant of expected equity option returns. Using an extended Black-Scholes model incorporating the presence of stock return autocorrelation, we demonstrate that expected returns of both call and put options are increasing in return autocorrelation coefficient of the underlying stock. Consistent with this insight, we find strong empirical support in the cross-section of average returns of equity options. Our paper highlights the necessity to control for stock return autocorrelation when studying option return predictability.

Keywords: stock return autocorrelation, expected option returns, cross-section of option returns, option portfolios

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G13

Suggested Citation:

Jeon, Yoontae and Kan, Raymond and Li, Gang, Stock Return Autocorrelations and Expected Option Returns (March 31, 2019). Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3363331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3363331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
T G Andersen , V Todorov , B Zhou
Volatility measurement with pockets of extreme return persistence
Journal of Econometrics , volume 237 Posted: 2023
R M Anderson , K S Eom , S B Hahn , J.-H Park
Sources of stock return autocorrelation Posted: 2012
T G Bali , H Beckmeyer , M Moerke , F Weigert
Option Return Predictability with Machine Learning and Big Data
Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,810
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,584
RANK
21,764
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies