Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Markov-Chain Approximations for Life-Cycle Models

39 Pages Posted: 1 May 2019

Giulio Fella

Queen Mary, University of London; University of Bologna, Department of Economics

Giovanni Gallipoli

Vancouver School of Economics, UBC; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); University of Chicago - Becker Friedman Institute for Economics

Jutong Pan

Analysis Group, Inc.

Date Written: December 18, 2018

Abstract

Non-stationary income processes are standard in quantitative life-cycle models, prompted by the observation that within-cohort income inequality increases with age. This paper generalizes Tauchen (1986), Adda-Cooper (2003), and Rouwenhorst’s (1995) discretization methods to non-stationary AR(1) processes. We evaluate the performance of these methods in the context of a canonical finite-horizon, income-fluctuation problem with a non-stationary income process. As a special case, we also examine relative performance when innovations to the persistent component of earnings are modeled as draws from a mixture of Normal distributions. We find that the generalized Rouwenhorst’s method performs consistently better than the others even with a relatively small number of states.

Keywords: numerical methods, finite state approximations

JEL Classification: C63

Suggested Citation:

Fella, Giulio and Gallipoli, Giovanni and Pan, Jutong, Markov-Chain Approximations for Life-Cycle Models (December 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3364635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3364635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
John Abowd , David Card
On the covariance structure of earnings and hours changes
Econometrica , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 411 - 456 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Jerome Adda , Russell W Cooper
Dynamic Economics: Quantitative Methods and Applications Posted: 2003
Manuel Arellano , Richard Blundell , Stéphane Bonhomme
Earnings and consumption dynamics: A non-linear panel data framework
Econometrica , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 693 - 734 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Francisco Barillas , Jésus Fernández-Villaverde
A generalization of the endogenous grid method
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , volume 31 , p. 2698 - 2712 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,223
RANK
560,264
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies