Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Primer on Bootstrap Testing of Hypotheses in Time Series Models: With an Application to Double Autoregressive Models

49 Pages Posted: 2 May 2019

Giuseppe Cavaliere

University of Bologna - Department of Economics

Anders Rahbek

University of Copenhagen - Department of Statistics and Operations Research; University of Copenhagen - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 3, 2019

Abstract

In this paper we discuss the general application of the bootstrap as a tool for statistical inference in econometric time series models. We do this by considering the implementation of bootstrap inference in the class of double-autoregressive [DAR] models discussed in Ling (2004). DAR models are particularly interesting to illustrate implementation of the bootstrap to time series: first, standard asymptotic inference is usually difficult to implement due to the presence of nuisance parameters under the null hypothesis; second, inference involves testing whether one or more parameters are on the boundary of the parameter space; third, under the alternative hypothesis, fourth or even second order moments may not exist. In most of these cases, the bootstrap is not considered an appropriate tool for inference. Conversely, and taking testing (non-)stationarity to illustrate, we show that although a standard bootstrap based on unrestricted parameter estimation is invalid, a correct implementation of a bootstrap based on restricted parameter estimation (restricted bootstrap) is first-order valid; that is, it is able to replicate, under the null hypothesis, the correct limiting null distribution. Importantly, we also show that the behaviour of this bootstrap under the alternative hypothesis may be different because of possible lack of finite second-order moments of the bootstrap innovations. This features makes - for some parameter configurations - the restricted bootstrap unable to replicate the null asymptotic distribution when the null is false. We show that this drawback can be fixed by using a new 'hybrid' bootstrap, where the parameter estimates used to construct the bootstrap data are obtained with the null imposed, while the bootstrap innovations are sampled with replacement from the unrestricted residuals. We show that this bootstrap, novel in this framework, mimics the correct asymptotic null distribution, irrespetively of the null to be true or false. Throughout the paper, we use a number of examples from the bootstrap time series literature to illustrate the importance of properly defining and analyzing the bootstrap generating process and associated bootstrap statistics.

Keywords: Bootstrap; Hypothesis testing; Double-autoregressive models; Parameter on the boundary; Infinite variance

JEL Classification: C32

Suggested Citation:

Cavaliere, Giuseppe and Rahbek, Anders, A Primer on Bootstrap Testing of Hypotheses in Time Series Models: With an Application to Double Autoregressive Models (April 3, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3364912 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3364912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D W K Andrews
Estimation when a Parameter is on a Boundary
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 6 , p. 1341 - 1383 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Inconsistency of the Bootstrap when a Parameter is on the Boundary of the Parameter Space
Econometrica , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 399 - 405 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Testing when a Parameter is on the Boundary of the Maintained Hypothesis
Econometrica , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 683 - 734 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D W K Andrews , M Buchinsky
A three-step method for choosing the number of bootstrap repetitions
Econometrica , volume 68 , p. 23 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
U. Copenhagen Economics Discussion Paper Series , Giuseppe Cavaliere , Ye Lu , Anders Rahbek , Jacob Østergaard
Bootstrap inference for Hawkes and general point processes
46 Pages · Posted: 13 May 2021 · Downloads: 58
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,502
RANK
592,557
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies