Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Network Effects in an Agent-Based Model of Tax Evasion with Social Influence

ExSIDE Working Paper Series No. 11- 2019

16 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2019

Fernando Garcia Alvarado

Université Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne; Ca Foscari University of Venice

Date Written: March 31, 2019

Abstract

An Agent-Based Model (ABM) accounting for tax-morale and loss-aversion was implemented over different network systems with social interactions at the local level to study the phenomenon of tax evasion. This ABM is an innovative model which integrates endogenous characteristics of heterogeneous agents and proposes a more relaxed assumption on the information exchanged between agents as compared to previous social models. The current study gives an insight on the possibility that choosing specific network structures may yield to more realistic outcomes. Moreover, this ABM manages to replicate both individual and aggregate results from previous experimental and computational models of tax evasion. A clearcut novelty might be the non-linear channel through which the network centrality enhances a positive effect on the aggregated level of tax compliance. There is a large area of action for public policy makers to further research the presented results about how audit rates, fines and tax morale non-linearly increase income disclosure, whereas tax rates have a non-linear negative impact on tax compliance.

Keywords: Agent-Based Models, Tax Evasion, Complex Networks

JEL Classification: H26, C63

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Alvarado, Fernando and Garcia Alvarado, Fernando, Network Effects in an Agent-Based Model of Tax Evasion with Social Influence (March 31, 2019). ExSIDE Working Paper Series No. 11- 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3365520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3365520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
L Mittone , P Patelli
Imitative behaviour in tax evasion
Economic simulations in swarm: Agent-based modelling and object oriented programming Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Davis , G Hecht , J Perkins
Social behaviors, enforcement, and tax compliance dynamics
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 39 - 69 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Hokamp , M Pickhardt
Income tax evasion in a society of heterogeneous agents: evidence from an agent-based model
International Economic Journal , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 541 - 553 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,085
RANK
687,436
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies