Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bootstrap Inference for Penalized GMM Estimators with Oracle Properties

19 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019

Lorenzo Camponovo

(SUPSI) Scuola universitaria professionale della Svizzera italiana

Date Written: January 2019

Abstract

We study the validity of bootstrap methods in approximating the sampling distribution of penalized GMM estimators with oracle properties. More precisely, we focus on bridge estimators with Lq penalty for 0 < q < 1, and adaptive lasso estimators. We show that the nonparametric bootstrap with recentered moment conditions provides a valid method for approximating the distribution of these estimators. Furthermore, using the bootstrap approach, we also propose a data-driven method for the selection of tuning parameters in the penalization terms. Monte Carlo simulations confirm the reliability and accuracy of the bootstrap procedure. The empirical coverages for the active variables implied by the nonparametric bootstrap are always very close to the nominal coverage probabilities.

Suggested Citation:

Camponovo, Lorenzo, Bootstrap Inference for Penalized GMM Estimators with Oracle Properties (January 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3372756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3372756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D W K Andrews
Higher-order improvements of a computationally attractive k-step bootstrap for extremum estimators
Econometrica , volume 70 , p. 119 - 162 Posted: 2002
Crossref
F Audrino , L Camponovo
Oracle Properties, Bias Correction, and Inference of the Adaptive Lasso for Time Series Extremum Estimators
Journal of Time Series Analysis , volume 39 , p. 111 - 128 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Belloni , V Chernozhukov , C Hansen
Inference on treatment effects after selection among high-dimensional controls
Review of Economic Studies , volume 81 , p. 608 - 650 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Belloni , V Chernozhukov , C Hansen
High-dimensional methods and inference on structural and treatment effects
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 28 , p. 29 - 50 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
934
RANK
741,762
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Methods: Quantitative Methods eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies