Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wild Multiplicative Bootstrap for M and GMM Estimators in Time Series

30 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019

Francesco Audrino

University of St. Gallen; Swiss Finance Institute

Lorenzo Camponovo

(SUPSI) Scuola universitaria professionale della Svizzera italiana

Constantin Roth

University of St. Gallen

Date Written: March 2019

Abstract

We introduce a wild multiplicative bootstrap for M and GMM estimators in nonlinear models when autocorrelation structures of moment functions are unknown. The implementation of the bootstrap algorithm does not require any parametric assumptions on the data generating process. After proving its validity, we also investigate the accuracy of our procedure through Monte Carlo simulations. The wild bootstrap algorithm always outperforms inference based on standard first-order asymptotic theory. Moreover, in most cases the accuracy of our procedure is also better and more stable than that of block bootstrap methods. Finally, we apply the wild bootstrap approach to study the forecast ability of variance risk premia to predict future stock returns. We consider US equity from 1990 to 2010. For the period under investigation, our procedure provides significance in favor of predictability. By contrast, the block bootstrap implies ambiguous conclusions that heavily depend on the selection of the block size.

Keywords: M and GMM Estimators, Time Series, Wild Bootstrap

JEL Classification: C12, C13, C15

Suggested Citation:

Audrino, Francesco and Camponovo, Lorenzo and Roth, Constantin, Wild Multiplicative Bootstrap for M and GMM Estimators in Time Series (March 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3372753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3372753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Allen , A W Gregory , K Shimotsu
Empirical likelihood block bootstrapping
Journal of Econometrics , volume 161 , p. 110 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J G Altonji , L M Segal
Small-sample bias in GMM estimation of covariance structures
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 14 , p. 353 - 366 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D W K Andrews
Heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix estimation
Econometrica , volume 59 , p. 817 - 858 Posted: 1991
Crossref
D W K Andrews
Higher-order improvements of a computationally attractive kstep bootstrap for extremum estimators
Econometrica , volume 70 , p. 119 - 162 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,176
RANK
560,264
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies