Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Establishment of the Credit Risk Database: Concrete Use to Evaluate the Creditworthiness of SMEs

ADBI Working Paper 924

27 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2019

Satoshi Kuwahara

CRD Credit Risk Database

Naoyuki Yoshino

Asian Development Bank Institute

Megumi Sagara

CRD Credit Risk Database

Farhad Taghizadeh-Hesary

Tokai University; Waseda University

Date Written: February 21, 2019

Abstract

The credit risk database (CRD) makes it possible to mitigate the problem of information asymmetry between small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and financial institutions and contributes to improving SMEs’ access to finance by collecting a large number of financial statements through the mechanism of SME finances and establishing a robust statistical model. We use the CRD in Japan, confirm the situation in Japan, and highlight the CRD’s contribution to evaluating the creditworthiness of SMEs. We also explain how to establish the CRD as a financial infrastructure, while indicating that the CRD and the scoring model based on it have maintained their quality owing to their operating system. We hope our experience contributes to the introduction of a statistical credit risk database composed of a large number of anonymous financial statement data in other countries and that the CRD helps to improve SMEs’ access to finance as a financial infrastructure.

Keywords: credit risk database, CRD creditworthiness, SMEs in Japan

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32

Suggested Citation:

Kuwahara, Satoshi and Yoshino, Naoyuki and Sagara, Megumi and Taghizadeh-Hesary, Farhad, Establishment of the Credit Risk Database: Concrete Use to Evaluate the Creditworthiness of SMEs (February 21, 2019). ADBI Working Paper 924, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3374751 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3374751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Asian Development Bank (ADB). 2015. Asia SME Finance Monitor Posted: 2014
Studies on the Validation of Internal Rating Systems Posted: 2015
Crd Association
Report on the actual status of SMEs based on analysis of the CRD data Posted: 2003
Satoshi Kuwahara , Naoyuki Yoshino , Megumi Sagara , Farhad Taghizadeh Hesary
Role of the Credit Risk Database in Developing SMEs in Japan: Lessons for the Rest of Asia
ADBI Working Paper 547 Pages: 25 Posted: 20 Nov 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,253
RANK
538,134
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Asian Development Bank Institute Publications

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies