Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Physical Laws and Human Behavior: A Three-Tier Framework

Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 2173

21 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2019

Shabnam Mousavi

Max Planck Institute for Human Development; Center for Adaptive Behavior and Cognition, Max Planck Institute for Human Development

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: February 28, 2019

Abstract

Social sciences start by looking at the social-psychological attributes of humans to model and explain their observed behavior. However, we suggest starting the study of observed human behavior with the universal laws of physics, e.g., the principle of minimum action. In our proposed three-tier framework, behavior is a manifestation of action driven by physical, biological, and social-psychological principles at the core, intermediate, and top tier, respectively. More broadly, this reordering is an initial step towards building a platform for reorganizing the research methods used for theorizing and modeling behavior. This perspective outlines and illustrates how a physical law can account for observed human behavior and sketches the elements of a broader agenda.

Keywords: Human behavior, Physics, Biology, Social sciences

JEL Classification: B30, B40, D01

Suggested Citation:

Mousavi, Shabnam and Sunder, Shyam, Physical Laws and Human Behavior: A Three-Tier Framework (February 28, 2019). Cowles Foundation Discussion Paper No. 2173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3374715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3374715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J Von Neumann , O Morgenstern
Theory of games and economic behavior Posted: 1953
L J Savage
The foundations of statistics Posted: 1954
Crossref
W Edwards
The theory of decision making
Psychological Bull , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 380 - 417 Posted: 1954
Crossref
C Cherniak , Rationality
Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,547
RANK
379,149
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies