Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Corporate Tax Rate and Tax Base Avoidance of U.S. Domestic and U.S. Multinational Firms

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

76 Pages Posted: 17 May 2019 Last revised: 24 Mar 2021

Niklas Lampenius

University of Hohenheim - Faculty of Business, Economics and Social Sciences

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Arthur Stenzel

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: March 23, 2021

Abstract

We develop an approach based on publicly available data to decompose and quantify tax avoidance into two separate components: tax rate avoidance and tax base avoidance. Our measures are based on the average statutory tax rate, which accounts for the statutory tax rates across all transactions of a firm. We illustrate and validate our measures using simulation data, the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, changes in tax rate avoidance and tax base avoidance across time, bonus depreciation time periods, several sample splits of U.S. multinational and domestic firms, differences across industries, and firms operating in tax haven locations. The measures allow regulators and researchers to gain insights into these two conceptually different tax avoidance strategies.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Rate Avoidance, Tax Base Avoidance, Average Statutory Tax Rates, Effective Tax Rates

JEL Classification: G38, H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Lampenius, Niklas and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Stenzel, Arthur, Measuring Corporate Tax Rate and Tax Base Avoidance of U.S. Domestic and U.S. Multinational Firms (March 23, 2021). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3374548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3374548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
766
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,374
RANK
75,315
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies