Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing for Private Information Using Trade Duration Models with Unobserved Market Heterogeneity: The Case of Banco Popular

Research Institute of Applied Economics Working Paper 2019/07

23 Pages Posted: 9 May 2019

Jorge Pérez Rodríguez

University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria - Faculty of Economic Science

Emilio Gómez-Déniz

Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria

Simon Sosvilla-Rivero

UCM Institute for Economic Analysis

Date Written: April 24, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we attempt to assess the potential importance of different types of traders (i.e., those with public and private information) in financial markets using a specification of the standardized duration. This approach allows us to test unobserved heterogeneity in a nonlinear version based on a self-exciting threshold autoregressive conditional duration model. We illustrate the relevance of this procedure for identifying the presence of private information in the final days of trading of Banco Popular, the first bank rescued by the European Single Resolution Board.

Keywords: conditional duration, threshold models, finite and infinite mixtures, private information, bank failure

JEL Classification: C22, C41, D53, D82, G10, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Pérez Rodríguez, Jorge and Gómez-Déniz, Emilio and Sosvilla-Rivero, Simon, Testing for Private Information Using Trade Duration Models with Unobserved Market Heterogeneity: The Case of Banco Popular (April 24, 2019). Research Institute of Applied Economics Working Paper 2019/07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3377446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3377446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R Albuquerque , G H Bauer , M Schneider
Global private information in international equity markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 18 - 46 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Aslan , D Easley , S Hvidkjaer , M O&apos;hara
The characteristics of informed trading: Implications for asset pricing
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 18 , p. 782 - 801 Posted: 2011
L Bauwens , P Giot
The logarithmic ACD model: An application to the bidask quote process of three NYSE stocks
Annales d'Economie et de Statistique , volume 60 , p. 117 - 150 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L Bauwens , D Veredas
The stochastic conditional duration model: a latent factor model for the analysis of financial durations
Journal of Econometrics , volume 119 , p. 381 - 412 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies