Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymptotic Distribution of the Score Test for Detecting Marks in Hawkes Processes

34 Pages Posted: 13 May 2019

Simon Clinet

Kepler Cheuvreux

William Dunsmuir

University of New South Wales

Gareth Peters

University of California Santa Barbara; University of California, Santa Barbara

Kylie-Anne Richards

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Mathematics and Statistics; University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS Business School

Date Written: April 30, 2019

Abstract

The asymptotic distribution of the score test of the null hypothesis that marks do not impact the intensity of a Hawkes marked self-exciting point process is shown to be chi-squared. For local asymptotic power, the distribution against local alternatives is also established as non-central chi-squared. These asymptotic results are derived using existing asymptotic results for likelihood estimates of the unmarked Hawkes process model together with mild additional conditions on the moments and ergodicity of the marks process and an additional uniform boundedness assumption, shown to be true for the exponential decay Hawkes process.

Keywords: Marked Hawkes point process, Ergodicity, Quasi likelihood, Score test, Inferential statistics, Local power

Suggested Citation:

Clinet, Simon and Dunsmuir, William and Peters, Gareth and Richards, Kylie-Anne and Richards, Kylie-Anne, Asymptotic Distribution of the Score Test for Detecting Marks in Hawkes Processes (April 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3380754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3380754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
P Andersen , O Borgan , R Gill , N Keiding
Statistical Models Based on Counting Processes
Springer Series in Statistics Posted: 1996
Crossref
E Bacry , I Mastromatteo , J.-F Muzy
Hawkes processes in finance
Market Microstructure and Liquidity , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P Brémaud , L Massoulié
Stability of nonlinear hawkes processes
Ann. Probab , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 1563 - 1588 Posted: 1996
T S Breusch , A Pagan
The lagrange multiplier test and its applications to model specification in econometrics
Review of Economic Studies , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 239 - 253 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,161
RANK
765,896
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies