Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Underspecification of the Empirical Return-Factor Model and a Factor Analytic Augmentation as a Solution to Factor Omission

Szczygielski, J. J., Brümmer, L. M., & Wolmarans, H. P. (2020). Underspecification of the empirical return-factor model and a factor analytic augmentation as a solution to factor omission. Studies in Economics and Econometrics, 44(2), 133-165.

35 Pages Posted: 28 May 2019 Last revised: 28 Sep 2020

Jan Szczygielski

Department of Financial Management, University of Pretoria; Department of Accounting and Financial Management,Newcastle Business School, Northumbria University

Leon Brummer

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hendrik Wolmarans

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 17, 2019

Abstract

This empirical paper comprehensively sets out the impact of underspecification on a key foundational concept in empirical finance, the linear factor model. It places emphasis on the extensive consequences of factor omission for model estimation and interpretation. Factor omission in time-series models that relate asset returns to pre-specified factor sets is a common problem. A proposed standard and widely-used solution is the inclusion of a residual market factor which is assumed to be a catch-all proxy for omitted factors. This study shows that a specification that incorporates a set of carefully selected macroeconomic factors will be underspecified. The inclusion of residual market factors will alleviate but not eliminate the consequences of underspecification. Although the early use of factor analytically derived factor scores in factor models has been criticized, augmenting a model comprising pre-specified factors with statistical factors derived from the residuals results in an accurately specified model for which the diagonality assumption holds. Consequently, this paper shows that a factor analytic augmentation is an effective and readily implementable solution to the factor omission problem.

Keywords: linear factor model, underspecification, Arbitrage Pricing Theory, asset pricing

JEL Classification: C01, C22, C58, G12

Suggested Citation:

Szczygielski, Jan and Szczygielski, Jan and Brummer, Lean and Wolmarans, Hendrik, Underspecification of the Empirical Return-Factor Model and a Factor Analytic Augmentation as a Solution to Factor Omission (September 17, 2019). Szczygielski, J. J., Brümmer, L. M., & Wolmarans, H. P. (2020). Underspecification of the empirical return-factor model and a factor analytic augmentation as a solution to factor omission. Studies in Economics and Econometrics, 44(2), 133-165., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3380244 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3380244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
C Adams , D Coe
A systems approach to estimating the natural rate of unemployment and potential output for the United States
Staff Papers , volume 37 , p. 232 - 293 Posted: 1990
Crossref
V Akgiray
Conditional heteroscedasticity in time series of stock returns: Evidence and forecasts
Journal of Business , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 88 Posted: 1989
Crossref
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , C Vega
Micro effects of macro announcements: Real-time price discovery in foreign exchange
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 62 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Armitage , J Brzeszczyński
Heteroscedasticity and interval effects in estimating beta: UK evidence
Applied Financial Economics , volume 21 , issue 20 , p. 1525 - 1538 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
RANK
541,838
1 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies