Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COAALA: A novel approach to understanding extreme stock-bond comovement

33 Pages Posted: 20 May 2019 Last revised: 27 Apr 2022

Anne-Florence Allard

University of Bristol

Hamza Hanbali

KU Leuven - Faculty of Business and Economics (FEB)

Kristien Smedts

KU Leuven - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Date Written: April 13, 2022

Abstract

This paper proposes a novel copula model designed to unravel the dependence between extreme variations in stocks and government bonds. This model is used to test whether government bonds can dampen extreme stock market turbulence, in which case the government bond market is referred to in this paper as tail risk dampener. Our findings reveal significant cross-country differences in stock-bond extreme tail dependence, indicating that not all government bonds act as tail risk dampeners. This is in contrast with similar global dependence dynamics across countries and highlights the necessity to consider both the global dependence and the tail dependence when analyzing the comovement between assets.

Keywords: stock-bond dependence, tail dependence, time-varying copulas

JEL Classification: C58, G11, G12

Suggested Citation:

Allard, Anne-Florence and Hanbali, Hamza and Smedts, Kristien, COAALA: A novel approach to understanding extreme stock-bond comovement (April 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3384096 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3384096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
H Asgharian , C Christiansen , A J Hou
Effects of macroeconomic uncertainty on the stock and bond markets
Finance Research Letters , volume 13 , p. 10 - 16 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Asgharian , C Christiansen , A J Hou
Macro-Finance Determinants of the Long-Run StockBond Correlation: The DCC-MIDAS Specification
Journal of Financial Econometrics , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 617 - 642 Posted: 2016
Crossref
L Baele , G Bekaert , K Inghelbrecht
The Determinants of Stock and Bond Return Comovements
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 2374 - 2428 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D G Baur , B M Lucey
Is Gold a Hedge or a Safe Haven? An Analysis of Stocks, Bonds and Gold
Financial Review , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 229 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,501
RANK
255,414
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies