Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Similarity

Contemporary Accounting Research, 2023, Volume 40, Issue 4, pp. 2577-2615.

82 Pages Posted: 30 May 2019 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Stephen V. Brown

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Guang Ma

Rutgers Business School at Newark and New Brunswick

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Date Written: July 4, 2023

Abstract

We propose financial statement similarity as a measure of financial reporting comparability. The firm-pair version of our measure reflects the degree to which two firms report similar relations within their financial statement items; this version can help managers and market participants identify peer firms. The firm-year version of our measure reflects the degree to which a firm reports financial statement relations that are similar to other members of its industry; this version can help market participants, regulators, and auditors screen firms for further attention. Our measure uses the presence and amounts of almost all financial items reported by a firm. We validate our measure in four sets of analyses to establish concurrent validity and in three sets of analyses to establish predictive validity. In all these tests, we contrast our measure with the comparability measure of De Franco et al. (2011) and a multivariate measure that considers only the presence, not amounts, of financial statement items. Our measure outperforms the alternatives and can be a useful tool for users.

Keywords: comparability; similarity; financial reporting; peer firms; benchmark firms.

JEL Classification: M2, M4, and G3

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Stephen V. and Ma, Guang and Tucker, Jennifer, Financial Statement Similarity (July 4, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, 2023, Volume 40, Issue 4, pp. 2577-2615., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3384394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Biased forecasts or biased earnings? The role of reported earnings in explaining apparent bias and over/underreaction in analysts' earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 146 Posted: 2003
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
C Bailey , D L Collins , L J Abbott
The impact of enterprise risk management on the audit process: Evidence from audit fees and audit delay
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 46 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,733
RANK
41,031
3 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies