Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Determinants of Cash Holding Levels: An Analysis of Indian Agricultural Enterprises

Agricultural Economics – Czech, 65, 2019

9 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2019

Kuldeep Singh

CMS Business School, JAIN Deemed to be University; Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad; Shiva Institute of Management Studies

Madhvendra Misra

Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Allahabad

Date Written: May 10, 2019

Abstract

A significant number of studies have been conducted on the determinants of cash holding levels for different corporates. However, no such study has been witnessed so far on the agricultural enterprises. In this study, we examine the determinants of the cash-holding levels for the Indian agrarian enterprises during 1995–2016 period. With the help of weighted least-squares (WLS) regression analysis, we find evidence that the Indian agro-enterprises with greater lucrative opportunities tend to hold less cash. On the other side, we found that large agro-enterprises tend to hold some other mode of liquid assets rather than cash. The firms with higher capital expenditure and distributing profits as a dividend were shown to hold more cash. In our analysis, we find supportive evidence of the static trade-off theory of cash holding. In general, transaction motives and precautionary motives also play an important role in explaining the determinants of cash holding levels for Indian agrarian enterprises.

Keywords: agricultural cash holding; cash-holding levels; cash management

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Kuldeep and Misra, Madhvendra, Financial Determinants of Cash Holding Levels: An Analysis of Indian Agricultural Enterprises (May 10, 2019). Agricultural Economics – Czech, 65, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3386500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
B Al-Najjar
The financial determinants of corporate cash holdings: Evidence from some emerging markets
Business Review , volume 22 , p. 77 - 88 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Ali , S Yousaf
Determinants of cash holding in German market
Journal of Business and Management , volume 12 , p. 28 - 34 Posted: 2013
Crossref
T W Bates , K M Kahle , R M Stulz
Why do US firms hold so much more cash than they used to?
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 1985 - 2021 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Boubaker , I Derouiche , D K Nguyen
Does the board of directors affect cash holdings? A study of French listed firms
Journal of Management & Governance , volume 19 , p. 341 - 370 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
798
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,401
RANK
71,261
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies