Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioural Accountancy

Posted: 5 Jun 2019 Last revised: 5 Jul 2019

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: May 16, 2019

Abstract

This paper proposes the term Behavioural Accountancy (as opposed to Behavioural Accounting) for the study of potential behavioural errors from the use of accountancy and accounting rules and approaches by accountants, accounting-related consultants and their clients, all construed broadly.

Behavioural Accountancy would then be analogous to Behavioural Economics and Behavioural Finance and include the presence and impact of heuristics, standard and rule-of-thumb assumptions and behavioural practice, bounded rationality, and potentially sub-optimal outcome performance.

The areas of interest in Behavioural Accountancy could include appropriate and inappropriate reliance on accountants and accounting-related consultants, measurement errors of accounting variables, the impact of reliance and focus on accounting variables, any confusion of the accounting models and the underlying business, accounting arbitrage, and any confusion of i) accounting and accountancy and accounting-related consultancy with ii) economics and econometrics and financial engineering, and any parallel confusion of iii) accountants and accounting-related consultants with iv) economists, econometricians, financial engineers, statisticians and actuaries.

A fundamental question would be to what degree, if at all, the professional structures and crafts of accountancy and accounting-related consultancy can substitute for different, unprofessionalized but scientific disciplines, both in the minds of clients and in terms of optimal outcomes. If there were such long term substitution and over-reliance on accountancy and accounting-related consultancy, then what other system features could make this a long term, if potentially inefficient, equilibrium?

Keywords: behavioural accountancy, behavioural accounting, behavioural economics, behavioural finance

Suggested Citation:

Macey-Dare, Rupert, Behavioural Accountancy (May 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3389403
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,045
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies