Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Standard Errors of Persistence

44 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2019

Morgan Kelly

University College Dublin (UCD) - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 3, 2019

Abstract

A large literature on persistence finds that many modern outcomes strongly reflect characteristics of the same places in the distant past. However, alongside unusually high t statistics, these regressions display severe spatial autocorrelation in residuals, and the purpose of this paper is to examine whether these two properties might be connected. We start by running artificial regressions where both variables are spatial noise and find that, even for modest ranges of spatial correlation between points, t statistics become severely inflated leading to significance levels that are in error by several orders of magnitude. We analyse 27 persistence studies in leading journals and find that in most cases if we replace the main explanatory variable with spatial noise the fit of the regression commonly improves; and if we replace the dependent variable with spatial noise, the persistence variable can still explain it at high significance levels. We can predict in advance which persistence results might be the outcome of fitting spatial noise from the degree of spatial autocorrelation in their residuals measured by a standard Moran statistic. Our findings suggest that the results of persistence studies, and of spatial regressions more generally, might be treated with some caution in the absence of reported Moran statistics and noise simulations.

Keywords: Persistence, Deep Origins, Inflated t Statistics, Spatial Noise

JEL Classification: N10, O10, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Kelly, Morgan, The Standard Errors of Persistence (June 3, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3398303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3398303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Daron Acemoglu , Simon Johnson , James A Robinson
The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation
American Economic Review , volume 95 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Daron Acemoglu , Simon Johnson , James A Robinson
Reversal of Fortune: Geography and Institutions in the Making of the Modern World Income Distribution
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 1231 - 1294 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Daron Acemoglu , Tarek A Hassan , James A Robinson
Social Structure and Development: A Legacy of the Holocaust in Russia
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 126 , p. 895 - 946 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Alberto Alesina , Paola Giuliano , Nathan Nunn
On the Origin of Gender Roles: Women and the Plough
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 128 , p. 469 - 530 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,688
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,239
RANK
11,050
126 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies