Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Investor Attention using Google Search

Management Science

76 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2019 Last revised: 10 Feb 2024

Ed deHaan

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Alastair Lawrence

London Business School

Robin Litjens

Nyenrode Business University; Tilburg University - CentER and Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 9, 2024

Abstract

While investor attention is fundamental to the efficient functioning of capital markets, it is also an elusive construct that researchers struggle to measure. In recent years, the search volume index (“SVI”) of ticker searches on Google has become a ubiquitous measure of investor attention, but the amount and effects of measurement error in ticker SVI are unknown. We investigate measurement error in ticker SVI using a dataset of 2.7 billion website visits following S&P 500 firms’ ticker searches. We find that 69% of searches are unrelated to investing, that this measurement error is highly correlated with firm characteristics, and that this measurement error can easily generate false-positive or false-negative results in common settings. We go on to show that a modified version of SVI using both a firm’s ticker and the word “stock” (e.g., searches for “CAT stock,” which we label “ticker-stock SVI”) not only better captures the search terms that investors typically use, but also has considerably less measurement error that is largely uncorrelated with observable firm characteristics. Ticker-stock SVI produces better-specified tests and while researchers must still carefully consider the effects of measurement error, we recommend that ticker-stock SVI is used in place of ticker SVI in most settings. We provide a dataset of ticker-stock SVI to facilitate future work.





* TS-SVI data for the Russell 3000 is available for download from Robin Litjen's GitHub page and will be updated annually.





** A former working version of this paper was titled “Measurement Error in Dependent Variables in Accounting: Illustrations Using Google Ticker Search and Simulations.”

Keywords: Google ticker search; SVI; investor attention; measurement error

JEL Classification: C13, C15, M41

Suggested Citation:

deHaan, Ed and Lawrence, Alastair and Litjens, Robin, Measuring Investor Attention using Google Search (February 9, 2024). Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3398287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3398287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
D Aboody , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Limited attention and the earnings announcement returns of past stock market winners
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 344 Posted: 2010
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
The review of financial studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
A Ben-Rephael , Z Da , R Israelsen
It depends on where you search: Institutional investor attention and underreaction to news
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 3009 - 3047 Posted: 2017
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , C Zhu
Capital market effects of media synthesis and dissemination: Evidence from robo-journalism
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2018
Load more
14 Citations
Casey M. Schwab , Bridget Stomberg , Junwei Xia
What Determines Effective Tax Rates? The Relative Influence of Tax and Other Factors*†
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 459 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Jennifer J. Gaver , Steven Utke
Do Seasoned Industry Specialists Provide Higher Audit Quality? A Response
31 Pages · Posted: 12 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 1 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 386
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aaron Erlich , Stefano G. Dantas , Benjamin E. Bagozzi , Daniel Berliner , Brian Palmer-Rubin
Multi-Label Prediction for Political Text-as-Data
Political Analysis , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 463 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Steven Crawford , Bumjoon Kim , Minjae Koo , Thien Le
The effect of corporate Twitter, Instagram and YouTube activity on investor attention and market liquidity
Accounting & Finance , volume 64 , issue 3 , p. 2605 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,077
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,669
RANK
47,121
14 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies