Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Information Flow and Management Guidance

56 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019 Last revised: 21 Aug 2021

Dane M. Christensen

University of Oregon

Arthur Morris

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Beverly R. Walther

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Laura Wellman

Pennsylvania State University; Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting; Penn State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 6, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether politically connected firms play a role in disseminating political
information via their management guidance. Using campaign financing activity or the presence
of a government affairs office to proxy for firms’ access to political information, we find that
politically connected firms are more likely to issue management guidance, and their guidance is
more likely to discuss government policies. Further, these relations are attenuated for firms
facing high proprietary costs of disclosure. To provide evidence on the source of the political
information disclosed through guidance, we examine the timing of when guidance is issued. We
find that politically connected firms are more likely to issue guidance and change their
government policy-related disclosures prior to the public revelation of government policy
decisions. Collectively, these findings suggest that the privileged information firms obtain
through their political connections is shared with investors through voluntary disclosures.

Keywords: Political connections; Information flow; Management forecasts; Corporate disclosure

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G38, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Dane M. and Morris, Arthur and Walther, Beverly R. and Wellman, Laura, Political Information Flow and Management Guidance (August 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3403763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
S Baker , N Bloom , S Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
K Balakrishnan , M Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
L Bamber , Y S Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,355
RANK
144,509
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies