Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonparametric Analysis in Accounting Research

University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper

56 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2019 Last revised: 21 Jun 2019

Frank Murphy

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Stephanie Miller

Quinnipiac University

Date Written: June 1, 2019

Abstract

Advancements in statistical packages and computing power have made various forms of nonparametric estimation accessible to empirical researchers. However, these methods have been underutilized in accounting research, and many accounting researchers may have limited exposure on how to apply these tools. This study explores two nonparametric estimation techniques: kernel density estimation and locally weighted regression. We focus on the practical implementation of these methods, including settings in which they may be useful, key inputs over which researchers have discretion, and sample code to program them. We contribute to the tax, audit, and methodological literatures by providing two illustrative examples of how nonparametric techniques may be used in accounting. First, we analyze time-trends of effective tax rates (ETRs) in the financial service industry using kernel density estimates. Our results document that the distribution of ETRs among financial services firms has become less focused around the mean over time, with more probability mass occurring for below-average ETRs. Second, we study the relation between audit fees and size using nonparametric regression and document that omitting small firms due to sample attrition may introduce nonlinearity to the relation. This result is not readily apparent without visualizing the data and is difficult to discern using OLS regressions. Additionally, we demonstrate the flexibility of nonparametric analysis across broad areas of accounting research and discuss how these techniques may be used to complement ordinary least squares regression and guide research design choices.

Keywords: Nonparametric Methods, Effective Tax Rates, Audit Fees

JEL Classification: C14, H25, M42

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Frank and Miller, Stephanie, Nonparametric Analysis in Accounting Research (June 1, 2019). University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3406288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
F J Anscombe
Graphs in Statistical Analysis
The American Statistician , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 21 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Erik Beardsley , Andrew Imdieke , Thomas C. Omer
Too Much of a Good Thing? Evidence of a Nonlinear Association Between Non-Audit Services and Audit Quality
Pages: 39 Posted: 9 Feb 2018 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M J Beck , E G Mauldin
Who's really in charge? Audit committee versus CFO power and audit fees. The Account
Rev , volume 89 , p. 2057 - 2085 Posted: 2014
Crossref
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
J. of Account. and Economics , volume 24 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
RANK
269,796
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies