Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theory, Research Design Assumptions, and Causal Inferences

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 66, No. 2-3, 2018

23 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2019

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Date Written: August 9, 2018

Abstract

Ferri, Zheng, and Zou test Fischer and Verrecchia’s (2000) prediction that a reduction in investors’ uncertainty about managers’ financial reporting objectives leads to an increase in the valuation-relevance of earnings reports. They use mandatory CD&A disclosures as an arguably exogenous “shock” that provided investors with more precise information about managers’ contractual incentives and find that these enhanced disclosures increased the relation between firms’ unexpected earnings and stock returns. Using Ferri et al. as a backdrop, we discuss the implicit assumptions invoked in natural experimental research designs and the fundamental role of theory in drawing causal inferences from empirical evidence.

Keywords: Causal inference; quasi-natural experiments; disclosure theory

JEL Classification: C10; C50; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Kepler, John, Theory, Research Design Assumptions, and Causal Inferences (August 9, 2018). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 66, No. 2-3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3411226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Armstrong , D Larcker , Ormazabal , D Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Bertomeu , A Beyer , Taylor , D
From casual to causal inference in accounting research: The need for theoretical foundations
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 10 , issue 2-4 , p. 262 - 313 Posted: 2016
Crossref
D Black , E Black , T Christensen , K Gee
The use of non-GAAP performance measures in executive compensation contracting and financial reporting Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,972
RANK
291,202
11 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies