Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Complacency at the Gates

Significance 16 (4): 18-19.

Posted: 9 Jul 2019 Last revised: 29 Aug 2022

William M. Cready

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: August 1, 2019

Abstract


A field report on the non-impact of the ASA Statement on Statistical Significance and P-Values on the broader research community. This article discusses the implications of a premier accounting journal’s dismissive response to a systematic application of the 2016 ASA Statement principles to its published content for the ASA statement’s likely success in achieving its objective of improving statistical practice.

Keywords: Statistical Signficance, Faithful Representation

JEL Classification: C18, M40

Suggested Citation:

Cready, William M., Complacency at the Gates (August 1, 2019). Significance 16 (4): 18-19. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3415674
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
891
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies