Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Downturns and the Informativeness of Management Earnings Forecasts

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2019 Last revised: 10 Apr 2021

David A. Maslar

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Department of Finance; University of Tennessee, Knoxville - College of Business Administration

Matthew Serfling

University of Tennessee; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Sarah Shaikh

University of Washington - Department of Accounting; University of Washington - Department of Accounting; University of Washington - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 9, 2021

Abstract

Economic downturns create uncertainty about a firm’s operations and make it disproportionately harder for outside market participants to assess the firm’s prospects. We posit that in this environment, management earnings forecasts will be more informative to investors and analysts. Consistent with this prediction, we find larger stock price reactions and analyst forecast revisions to news in management forecasts during downturns. Holding the amount of news in forecasts constant, stock price reactions to management forecasts are also greater than those to analyst forecasts. We also find that relative to analyst forecasts, management forecast accuracy increases during downturns, suggesting that investors justifiably assess management forecasts as more informative. Overall, we document that macroeconomic conditions create time-series variation in the informativeness of different sources of information to outside market participants.

Keywords: Management forecasts, Analysts, Reactions, Downturns, Uncertainty

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Maslar, David A. and Serfling, Matthew and Shaikh, Sarah, Economic Downturns and the Informativeness of Management Earnings Forecasts (April 9, 2021). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3419128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3419128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,798
RANK
127,186
13 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies