Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Salience of Management Guidance Affects Forecasting Behavior: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment on Estimize

47 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2019 Last revised: 9 Jun 2020

Qin Li

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Siew Hong Teoh

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Date Written: May 21, 2020

Abstract

In October 2014, Estimize.com began providing management guidance on its platform for firms that provide guidance. We exploit this exogenous shock to salience of management guidance as a quasi-natural experiment to study how salience of management guidance affects forecasting behavior. Using a difference-in-differences design, we show that an increase in salience increases the number of Estimize contributors, increases contributors’ forecast accuracy, lowers contributors’ forecast dispersion, and increases herding by contributors towards the guidance forecast. Our results imply that, absent endogeneity, the increased salience of management guidance increases attention to the guidance information by market participants with attentional constraints, thereby increasing the likelihood that they incorporate guidance information when forming expectations about a firm’s future performance.

Keywords: Salience, Limited attention, Field experiment, Estimize, Management guidance

JEL Classification: M41, G11, G17, F14, G38, G41, C93, G28, G29

Suggested Citation:

Li, Qin and Lourie, Ben and Teoh, Siew Hong, How Salience of Management Guidance Affects Forecasting Behavior: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment on Estimize (May 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3423608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3423608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
K Balakrishnan , M Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Crossref
O E Barron , C O Kile , T B O&apos;keefe
MD&A quality as measured by the SEC and analysts' earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M E Barth , R Kasznik , M F Mcnichols
Analyst coverage and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,418
RANK
239,255
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies