Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Initial Stage Clustering When Estimating Accounting Quality Measures With Self-Organizing Maps

Expert Systems with Applications, vol. 42, no. 21, pp. 8327-8336, November 2015

33 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2019

Jesper Haga

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Finance and Statistics

Jimi Siekkinen

Hanken School of Economics

Dennis Sundvik

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: July 02, 2015

Abstract

This study introduces self-organizing maps as a clustering approach for several measures in accounting that rely on local linear regression-based estimation models with an initial and essential clustering phase. Clustering by industry is the most frequently used approach in prior literature when estimating measures such as real activities manipulation or accruals quality. However, this approach has been subject to criticism due to its association with sample attrition and biased outcome measures. The purpose of our study is to develop and evaluate the performance of a self-organizing map (SOM) local regression-based estimation model for several measures of accounting quality. The SOM is built by utilizing general firm characteristics such as regular balance sheet items as cluster variables instead of model specific variables. According to the results, our SOM local regression models outperform previously suggested clustering methods. Simulation tests show that estimation models based on SOM clustering with general firm characteristics detect abnormality in the accounting quality measures much better than previously used clustering methods. By utilizing the SOM approach, the estimation process of the measures is significantly improved which results in more accurate outcome measures that can be used in various contexts including expert systems designed for auditors and investors.

Keywords: Accounting quality, Clustering, Earnings management, Self-organizing maps

JEL Classification: M40, C45

Suggested Citation:

Haga, Jesper and Siekkinen, Jimi and Sundvik, Dennis, Initial Stage Clustering When Estimating Accounting Quality Measures With Self-Organizing Maps (July 02, 2015). Expert Systems with Applications, vol. 42, no. 21, pp. 8327-8336, November 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3442102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
G Barreto
Time series prediction with the self-organizing map: a review
Perspectives on Neural-Symbolic Intergration Posted: 2007
Crossref
V Bernard , D Skinner
What motivates managers' choice of discretionary accruals?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 313 - 325 Posted: 1996
Crossref
J Brickley , J Zimmerman
Corporate governance myths: comments on Armstrong, Guay and Weber
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 235 - 245 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Budayan , I Dikmen , T Birgonul
Comparing the performance of traditional cluster analysis, self-organizing maps and fuzzy C-means method for strategic grouping
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 36 , p. 11772 - 11781 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
665
RANK
914,805
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies