Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crowdsourced Forecasts and the Market Reaction to Earnings Announcement News

59 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2019 Last revised: 14 Jul 2023

Sandra G. Schafhäutle

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

David Veenman

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School (ABS)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 14, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether crowdsourced forecasts of earnings and revenues help investors unravel bias in earnings announcement news, which is commonly derived from analyst forecasts. Our results suggest that investors, on average, understand and price the predictive signals reflected in crowdsourced forecasts about the bias in analyst-based earnings and revenue surprises. Using the staggered addition of firms to the Estimize platform, we find that crowdsourced coverage is associated with reductions in the mispricing of forecast bias and declines in earnings announcement premia. We further find some evidence that managers use income-increasing accruals to meet the crowdsourced forecast benchmark and that they respond to crowdsourced coverage through increased downward earnings and revenue guidance. Overall, we conclude that user-generated content on crowdsourced financial information platforms helps investors discount biases in traditional equity research and thereby better process the news in earnings announcements.

Keywords: Crowdsourcing, Estimize, sell-side analysts, forecast bias, earnings announcements, market reactions

JEL Classification: G14, G20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schafhäutle, Sandra G. and Veenman, David, Crowdsourced Forecasts and the Market Reaction to Earnings Announcement News (July 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3444144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3444144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
J Abarbanell , H Park
Do Bright-Line Earnings Surprises Really Affect Stock Price Reactions?
Management Science , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 1063 - 1084 Posted: 2017
B Adebambo , B A Bliss , A Kumar
Geography, Diversity, and Accuracy of Crowdsourced Earnings Forecasts. Working paper Posted: 2016
M Bagnoli , M D Beneish , S G Watts
Whisper Forecasts of Quarterly Earnings Per Share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 50 Posted: 1999
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How Much Should We Trust Staggered Differencein-Differences Estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
838
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,909
RANK
43,711
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies