Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supply and Demand of Information Influencing Firm Valuation

38 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2019 Last revised: 14 Apr 2020

Zane L. Swanson

University of Central Oklahoma

Glen D Moyes

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

Abstract: The concept that accounting represents the information economics of the firm is a premise for the allocation of scarce resources. The analysis starts with a clean surplus model as a basis for the conceptual framework. Then, theoretical firm information economic supply-and-demand features are incorporated within a path diagram. This framework is investigated empirically with simultaneous regression equations and a structural equation model (SEM). Equations have explanatory power irrespective of the statistical methodology. And, a latent variable measure of internally generated intangible assets positively and significantly affects net income. Sensitivity subsamples investigate size and risk factors for robustness. Thus, the study expands the research frontier for SEM financial accounting research.

Keywords: Information Economics, SEM, Intangible Assets

JEL Classification: C5, G12, M00

Suggested Citation:

Swanson, Zane L. and Moyes, Glen D, Supply and Demand of Information Influencing Firm Valuation (January 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3445446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3445446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
V Amonga
Accounting's 21st Century Challenge: How to Value Intangible Assets
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2016-03-21
S Anagnostopoulou
R&D expenses and firm valuation: a literature review
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , p. 5 - 24 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Arthur
Increasing Returns and the New World of Business
Harvard Business Review , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 1996
J Barney
Gaining and Sustaining Competive Advantage Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,312
RANK
545,411
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies