Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Demand Uncertainty and the Production of Audit Services

52 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2019 Last revised: 31 Oct 2023

Douglas Ayres

Ball State University - Department of Accounting

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Jonathan E. Shipman

University of Arkansas

Jason Stanfield

Ball State University

Date Written: September 10, 2023

Abstract

Economic theory suggests that demand uncertainty should influence producer behavior. In this study, we empirically examine the impact of demand uncertainty on the production of audit services. Auditors must make resource allocation decisions in advance of exact demand being known, and because a large portion of auditors’ capacity-related commitments are fixed and therefore difficult to adjust in the short run, uncertainty in client demand outcomes likely imposes costs on auditors. Consistent with auditors being compensated for these costs, our results indicate that both audit price and audit production timing are affected by a client’s uncertainty in demand for audit services. We also find that these compensation mechanisms act as substitutes used by auditors to alleviate the costs imposed by demand uncertainty. Our study contributes to the growing literature on the underlying economics of the audit market and answers recent calls for analysis of demand-side factors that influence the audit industry.

Keywords: producer theory; demand uncertainty; capacity constraints; audit production

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ayres, Douglas and Kleppe, Tyler J. and Shipman, Jonathan E. and Stanfield, Jason W., Demand Uncertainty and the Production of Audit Services (September 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3446447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3446447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,128
RANK
132,890
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies