Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ten Basic Claims of Information Systems Research: An Approach to Interrogating Validity Claims in Scientific Argumentation

40 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2019

Ojelanki Ngwenyama

Ryerson University - Ted Rogers School of Management; Deakin University - School of Information Systems; University of Cape Town (UCT), Faculty of Commerce, Graduate School of Business, Students

Date Written: September 2, 2019

Abstract

The post-truth culture of corporate fraud, scientific misconduct and misinformation is challenging the legitimacy of our scientific and democratic institutions. The present environment of public discourse suggest we need highly developed argumentation skills. If we, as scientists and citizens, are to protect the legitimacy of our democratic institutions, we will need to vigorously interrogate claims to truth and knowledge. For such discourse, we will need frameworks that signal our democratic values and enable us to uphold our professional and citizenship commitments to science and society. This essay is offered as a contribution to the development of frameworks for open critical discourse in the IS discipline. The framework and approach to the critical interrogation of scientific claims outlined here are rooted in works of two eminent scholars of critical discourse and argumentation, Jürgen Habermas and Stephen Toulmin. The approach is illustrated with an empirical analysis of three papers published in EJIS.

Suggested Citation:

Ngwenyama, Ojelanki, The Ten Basic Claims of Information Systems Research: An Approach to Interrogating Validity Claims in Scientific Argumentation (September 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3446798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3446798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
117 References
P J Ågerfalk
Embracing diversity through mixed methods research
European Journal of Information Systems , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 251 - 256 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P J Ågerfalk
Insufficient theoretical contribution: a conclusive rationale for rejection
European Journal of Information Systems , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 593 - 599 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P J Ågerfalk , O Eriksson
Action-oriented conceptual modelling
European Journal of Information Systems , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 80 - 92 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H Allcott , M Gentzkow
Social media and fake news in the 2016 election
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 211 - 236 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Chitu Okoli
Developing Novel and Relevant Theoretical Contributions with Literature Reviews
23 Pages · Posted: 16 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 361
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,211
RANK
41,635
1 Citations
117 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies