Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Consulting Opportunities and the Reemergence of Big 4 Consulting Practices: Implications for the Audit Market

65 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2019 Last revised: 14 Feb 2022

Elizabeth N. Cowle

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Jonathan E. Shipman

University of Arkansas

Date Written: February 10, 2022

Abstract

Consulting service revenues recently surpassed audit revenues as the primary income source for the largest accounting firms. Since SOX limits the provision of consulting services to audit clients, this shift in revenues implies that firms and many clients likely choose between audit and consulting relationships. We explore the implications of this by developing and validating a measure of client-level consulting needs that can likely be fulfilled by accounting firms, which we refer to as “consulting opportunities.” As predicted, we find that consulting opportunities relate positively to auditor switches. We also find that consulting opportunities relate negatively to subsequent Big 4 auditor selection, the firms focusing most on consulting, but we fail to find evidence that consulting opportunities relate to deteriorations in audit quality. Together, our results suggest that legislation limiting firms’ ability to deliver consulting services to audit clients may have reduced audit market concentration without discernably impacting quality.

Keywords: Audit Firm Consulting, Audit Market Structure, Latent Dirichlet Allocation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cowle, Elizabeth N. and Kleppe, Tyler J. and Moon, James and Shipman, Jonathan E., Client Consulting Opportunities and the Reemergence of Big 4 Consulting Practices: Implications for the Audit Market (February 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3452244 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3452244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to The U.S. Department of the Treasury
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession (ACAP) Posted: 2008
H Agnew
Big Four' Push Forward in Consulting
Financial Times Posted: 2015
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The Structure of Voluntary Disclosure Narratives: Evidence from Tone Dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
615
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,656
RANK
99,960
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies