Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Readability: Managerial Choices versus Firm Fundamentals

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2019, doi: 10.1080/02102412.2019.1668219

Posted: 22 Oct 2019

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Ameneh Bazrafshan

Imam Reza International University

Javad RajabAlizadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad (FUM)

Date Written: September 17, 2019

Abstract

An implicit premise of regulators and much empirical research is that financial reporting readability (readability) substantially reflects management choices. To investigate this issue, we decompose readability into its discretionary and innate components. To validate this decomposition, we examine whether these two components have different uncertainty effects. Our empirical findings show that readability is primarily the result of firm fundamentals rather than managerial choices. Furthermore, consistent with expectation, discretionary readability has a weaker uncertainty effect than innate readability. The findings are robust to a variety of additional tests. This study contributes to regulators to better assess readability and to empirical literature to construct more accurate tests.

Keywords: Quality of financial disclosures, Readability, Managerial discretion, Discretionary readability, Firm fundamentals, Uncertainty

JEL Classification: D80, G14, G32, M16, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hesarzadeh, Reza and Bazrafshan, Ameneh and RajabAlizadeh, Javad, Financial Reporting Readability: Managerial Choices versus Firm Fundamentals (September 17, 2019). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2019, doi: 10.1080/02102412.2019.1668219, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3455288
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
877
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies