Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting the Type of Auditor Opinion: Statistics, Machine Learning, or a Combination of the Two?

The European Journal of Applied Economics, 16(2), 1-58. doi:10.5937/EJAE16-21832 (2019)

58 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2019

Nemanja Stanisic

Singidunum University - Department for Business Economics

Tijana Radojevic

Singidunum University

Nenad Stanic

Singidunum University

Date Written: April 11, 2019

Abstract

The goal of this study is to overcome the identified methodological limitations of prior studies aimed at predicting the type of auditor opinion and draw definite conclusions on the relative predictive performance of different predictive methods for this particular task. Predictive performance of twelve candidate models from the realms of statistics and machine learning is assessed separately for the two common real-life scenarios: a) when prior information on the client (i.e. types of audit opinion received in the past) is available and can be used in prediction, and b) when such information is not available (e.g. new companies). The results show that, in the first scenario, several methods from both realms achieve comparable predictive performance of around 0.89, as measured by the Area under the curve (AUC). In the second scenario, however, machine learning algorithms, particularly tree-based ones, such as random forest, perform significantly better, achieving the AUC of up to 0.79. Finally, we develop and assess the predictive performance of two hybrid models aimed at combining the strong points of both statistical (i.e. interpretability of results) and machine learning (i.e. handling a large number of predictors and improved accuracy) approaches. The complete procedure is demonstrated in a reproducible manner, using the largest empirical data set ever used in this stream of research, comprising 13,561 pairs of annual financial statements and the corresponding audit reports. The procedures described in this study allow audit and finance professionals around the globe to develop and test predictive models that will aid their procedures of audit planning and risk assessment.

Keywords: auditor opinion, financial reports, generalized linear mixed models, random forest, guided regularized random forest, ensembles

Suggested Citation:

Stanisic, Nemanja and Radojevic, Tijana and Stanic, Nenad, Predicting the Type of Auditor Opinion: Statistics, Machine Learning, or a Combination of the Two? (April 11, 2019). The European Journal of Applied Economics, 16(2), 1-58. doi:10.5937/EJAE16-21832 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3471395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
D Abad , J P Sánchez-Ballesta , J Yagüe
Audit opinions and information asymmetry in the stock market
Accounting & Finance , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 565 - 595 Posted: 2017
Crossref
GAAS section 315, Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement
ASB GAAS Section , volume 315 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E L Ashbeck , M L Bell
Single time point comparisons in longitudinal randomized controlled trials: power and bias in the presence of missing data
BMC Medical Research Methodology , volume 16 , issue 1 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R H Baayen , D J Davidson , D M Bates
Mixed-effects modeling with crossed random effects for subjects and items
Journal of Memory and Language , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 390 - 412 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,197
RANK
221,251
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies