Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuing Minority Interests

Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2019 Last revised: 31 Aug 2021

Doron Nissim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: August 1, 2021

Abstract

For many firms, the value of common equity is affected by the value of two types of minority interests: equity method investments (the company’s significant minority stakes in affiliated entities), and non-controlling interests (outside minority interests in the company’s partially-owned subsidiaries). In most cases little information is provided on these claims, and their value is accordingly estimated using book value. This study develops an algorithm to estimate the value of minority interests using book value, earnings, and the average pricing of these fundamentals in the firm’s industry. Valuing minority interests using the algorithm instead of book value results in statistically and economically significant improvement in the accuracy of the estimated value of common equity.

Keywords: equity method investments, non-controlling interests, minority interests, investments in associates, valuation, industry multiples

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nissim, Doron, Valuing Minority Interests (August 1, 2021). Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3472592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
511
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,455
RANK
126,283
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies