Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relevance of Accounting Research (ROAR) Scores: Ratings of Titles and Abstracts by Accounting Professionals

28 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2019 Last revised: 26 Jan 2021

F. Greg Burton

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

T. Jeffrey Wilks

Brigham Young University

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 25, 2021

Abstract

The relevance of academic accounting research to practice has been frequently discussed in the accounting academy, yet very little data has been put forth in these discussions. We create relevance of accounting research (ROAR) scores by asking accounting professionals to read and evaluate the titles and abstracts of every article published in 12 leading accounting journals for the years 2016 to 2018, inclusive. These scores allow for an evidence-based evaluation and discussion of how academic accounting research is perceived by accounting professionals. The scores also allow us to identify the articles, authors, journals, and accounting topic areas that are perceived to be more relevant to accounting practice. By continuing to produce these scores in perpetuity, we expect this data to help academics and professionals better identify and utilize research relevant to the accounting profession.

Keywords: Research Relevance, Accounting Rankings, Practice-Oriented Research, Journal Rankings

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, M00

Suggested Citation:

Burton, Fielding Greg and Summers, Scott L. and Wilks, Thomas Jeffrey and Wood, David A., Relevance of Accounting Research (ROAR) Scores: Ratings of Titles and Abstracts by Accounting Professionals (January 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3501871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3501871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
AAA) and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2012. The Pathways Commission: Charting a National Strategy for the Next Generation of Accountants
Eligibility Procedures and Accreditation Standards for Accounting Accreditation Posted: 2018
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) International (2020)
Crossref
C S Asness , A Frazzini , L H Pedersen
Quality minus junk
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 34 - 112 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Margaret H. Christ , Scott A. Emett , Scott L. Summers , David A. Wood
Prepare for Takeoff: Improving Asset Measurement and Audit Quality with Drone-Enabled Inventory Audit Procedures
Review of Accounting Studies · 38 Pages · Posted: 7 Mar 2019 · Last revised: 26 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 1,838
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fielding Greg Burton , Scott L. Summers , Thomas Jeffrey Wilks , David A. Wood
Do We Matter? The Attention Policy Makers, Academics, and the General Public Give to Accounting Research
49 Pages · Posted: 22 Aug 2017 · Last revised: 26 May 2020 · Downloads: 639
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chanyuan (Abigail) Zhang , Soohyun Cho , Miklos Vasarhelyi
Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) in auditing
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 46 , p. 100572 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Jared S. Moon , David A. Wood
Research Initiatives in Accounting Education: Research Relevance and Research Productivity
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 111 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,071
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,548
RANK
47,498
7 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies