Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance with IFRS Mandatory Disclosure Requirements: A Structured Literature Review

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 2020, 40, 100338.

Posted: 27 Jan 2020 Last revised: 31 May 2023

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Fanis Tsoligkas

University of Bath - School of Management

Lisa Evans

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 31, 2020

Abstract

This paper reviews the literature on compliance with IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements for the post-2005 period. We adopt a structured literature review methodology and address three key questions: how is research on compliance with IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements developing; what is the focus and critique of the literature on compliance with IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements; and lastly, what is the future for research on compliance with IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements? We find that studies mostly draw samples from one country and mainly focus on small markets or less developed economies. Articles which use sample firms from more than one country tend to examine primarily large firms from EU countries. We identify accounting standards which are commonly associated with low compliance and discuss factors affecting compliance. We note that only a limited number of studies examine the market consequences of compliance. Although we identify multiple scoring methods used in the literature, most studies employ a single method in isolation, despite the shortcomings of this approach. Only a small proportion of studies considers materiality of the disclosures investigated or performs validity and reliability tests. Finally, we discuss policy implications arising from this stream of research and suggest avenues for future research.

Keywords: Accounting disclosure, mandatory disclosures, compliance, IFRS, structured literature review

JEL Classification: M40, M41.

Suggested Citation:

Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Tsoligkas, Fanis and Evans, Lisa, Compliance with IFRS Mandatory Disclosure Requirements: A Structured Literature Review (March 31, 2020). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 2020, 40, 100338., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3513301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3513301
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,449
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies