Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Theory and IFRS: An Agenda for Future Research

Forthcoming at REFC - Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting

31 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2020

Marta Silva Guerreiro

Superior School of Technology and Management Polytechnic Institute of Viana do Castelo

Lúcia Maria Portela de Lima Rodrigues

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Russell Craig

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 5, 2020

Abstract

This paper highlights the capacity for Institutional Theory [IT] to render in-depth understanding of change processes associated with the adoption and implementation of international accounting standards by countries and organizations. Although the fact of requiring the adoption of IFRS could be characterized as a form of coercive power, recent developments in IT help to explore the extent to which adoption and diffusion of IFRS is shaped by agency, the interests of actors involved in the adoption process, and the role of institutional entrepreneurs and institutional work. We provide a structured review of literature that uses an IT framework in the context of adopting and implementing IFRS. The review brings together various streams of IT and current debates in the management and organization literature. This allows us to outline an agenda for future research that proposes six new research questions for investigation. These research questions are intended to encourage greater regard for the capacity of the theoretical toolkit of institutional logics to explore institutional entrepreneurship, institutional work, and the institutional dynamics of change processes associated with the adoption, maintenance and disruption of accounting systems.

Keywords: Keywords: Institutional theory, change process, adoption, implementation, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Guerreiro, Marta Silva and Portela de Lima Rodrigues, Lúcia Maria and Craig, Russell, Institutional Theory and IFRS: An Agenda for Future Research (January 5, 2020). Forthcoming at REFC - Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3514499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
M A Abernethy , W F Chua
A field study of control system "redesign": The impact of institutional processes on strategic choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Aburous
IFRS and institutional work in the accounting domain
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 62 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2019
Crossref
C N Albu , N Albu , D Alexander
When global accounting standards meet the local context -Insights from an emerging economy
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 489 - 510 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C N Albu , N Albu , S F Pali-Pista , M M Gîrbină , S K Selimoglu , D M Kovács , J Lukács , G Mohl , L Müllerová , M Paseková , A P Arsoy , B Sipahi , J Strouhal
Implementation of IFRS for SMEs in emerging economies: Stakeholder perceptions in the
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 140 - 175 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,562
RANK
158,514
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies