Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relative Performance Evaluation, Sabotage and Collusion

85 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2020 Last revised: 3 Oct 2022

Matthew J. Bloomfield

The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

Catarina Marvão

University College Dublin (UCD) - Michael Smurfit Graduate Business School; Stockholm School of Economics - Stockholm Institute of Transition Economics (SITE); Central Bank of Ireland

Giancarlo Spagnolo

University of Rome Tor Vergata; EIEF; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Stockholm School of Economics (SITE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 21, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether the potential for costly sabotage is a deterrent to firms’ use of relative performance evaluation (“RPE”) in CEO pay plans. We exploit illegal cartel membership as a source of variation in the potential for costly sabotage and document that firms are more likely to use RPE if they are currently cartel members. Moreover, firms frequently drop RPE from their CEOs’ pay plans immediately after their cartels are detected, dissolved and punished. We further provide suggestive evidence that the potential for costly sabotage explains these patterns; cartel membership severs the empirical association between RPE and competitive aggression.

Keywords: Compensation, Collusion, Cartels, Managerial Incentives, Relative Performance Evaluation, Sabotage

JEL Classification: D21, D22, D43, G30, G35

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Matthew J. and Marvão, Catarina and Spagnolo, Giancarlo, Relative Performance Evaluation, Sabotage and Collusion (September 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3524522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3524522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 Posted: 1999
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
F Allen , D Gale
Corporate Governance: Theoretical and Empirical Perspectives, Chapter Corporate Governance and Competition , p. 23 - 90 Posted: 2000
M Antón , F Ederer , M Giné , M C Schmalz
Common ownership, competition, and top management incentives Posted: 1328
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,283
RANK
123,612
2 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies