Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Novel Algorithm for Generating GVKEY-CIK Link Table

K.C. Kenneth CHU, Sipeng CHEN, and Tommy Leung (2020) A Novel Algorithm for Generating GVKEY-CIK Link Table. Journal of Information Systems In-Press.

DOI: 10.2308/isys-18-068

33 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2020

K.C. Kenneth Chu

Macau University of Science and Technology

Sipeng Chen

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Tommy Leung

The Hang Seng University of Hong Kong - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 2020

Abstract

This paper presents a do-it-yourself algorithm to generate the historical GVKEY-CIK link table. The proposed algorithm features to pre-classify sample data into different treatment subgroups and utilizes historical firm information available from the source data to increase (reduce) matching efficiency (errors). Simulation results show that our algorithm is superior to applying only conventional name matching operations over the whole sample: 57.5 percent of the overall matching results are error-free ex-ante, and for the remaining 42.5 percent of data, records without Type I errors (with Type II errors) increase (decrease) by 34.0 percent (59.4 percent) when the optimal threshold is used.

Keywords: Compustat, EDGAR, 10-K, Link Table

JEL Classification: C89, M40, G10, G18

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Kenneth and Chen, Sipeng and Leung, Tommy, A Novel Algorithm for Generating GVKEY-CIK Link Table (May 2020). K.C. Kenneth CHU, Sipeng CHEN, and Tommy Leung (2020) A Novel Algorithm for Generating GVKEY-CIK Link Table. Journal of Information Systems In-Press. , DOI: 10.2308/isys-18-068, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3530613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3530613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
FUNDA is the dataset containing the GVKEY's and other financial information (on annual basis) of the firms from the WRDS website
HIST-CIK is generated by downloading from the EDGAR system one report filed by each firm (mainly 10K) in each year, containing the needed information extracted from the filings, namely the (historical) CIK, Company Name, Date Filed and Form Type
Pre-match-group = -1 records), a one-to-many cross product of name/firm pairs is formed between each FUNDA firm-year record and all HIST-CIK firms of the same year
Conventional Name Matching operations (applied for the
This group contains the name pairs with zero spelling distances and the Pre-matchgroup = 1 records. In Post-match-group = M̃ , the pairs are categorized as being matched inefficiently and subject to Type I error. This group contains the name pairs with positive spelling distances which are below or equal to the preset threshold. In Post-match-group = UM, the pairs are categorized as being unmatched and subject to Type II error
Synonym Name Matching operations, a list of synonym names (including the original FUNDA name) is generated for each firm by its filing names in the Pre-match-group = 1 year
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,616
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,292
RANK
25,924
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies