Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The value relevance of alternative performance measures: Evidence from the Oslo Stock Exchange

Journal of Governance & Regulation, 7(4), 27-41. http://doi.org/10.22495/jgr_v7_i4_p4

15 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2020

Tonny Stenheim

Buskerud University College

Anna Natalia Beckman

BI Norwegian Business School

Cathrine Olsen Valltoft

BI Norwegian Business School

Dag Øivind Madsen

University of South-Eastern Norway USN School of Business

Date Written: December 22, 2018

Abstract

Companies disclose alternative performance measures (APMs), either to provide useful information to the market, or strategically in order to mislead the market. Using traditional price and return regressions, this study examines the value relevance of APMs and whether such measures are more value relevant than financial statement measures. The sample consists of the 100 largest companies listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange with quarterly data from 2012 to 2016. The authors find APMs to be value relevant for investors on the Oslo Stock Exchange. Furthermore, the authors conclude that APMs are more value relevant than financial statement measures. However, this finding should be interpreted with caution since the results are of limited statistical significance. Overall, the findings of this study suggest that companies disclose APMs to inform rather than mislead the market.

Keywords: Alternative Performance Measures, Non-GAAP Earnings, Pro Forma Earnings, Value Relevance

Suggested Citation:

Stenheim, Tonny and Beckman, Anna Natalia and Olsen Valltoft, Cathrine and Madsen, Dag Øivind, The value relevance of alternative performance measures: Evidence from the Oslo Stock Exchange (December 22, 2018). Journal of Governance & Regulation, 7(4), 27-41. http://doi.org/10.22495/jgr_v7_i4_p4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3532651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring value relevance in a (possibly) inefficient market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S M Albring , M T Cabán-García , J L Reck
The value relevance of a non-GAAP performance metric to the capital markets
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 264 - 284 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: Another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1-3 , p. 19 - 21 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,514
RANK
359,199
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies