Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multi-Stage Clustering with Complementary Structural Analysis of 2-Mode Networks

Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining, ASONAM 2019, ACM 978-1-4503-6868-1/19/08.

8 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2021

Emanuela Todeva

Business Clusters, Networks and Economic Development

David Knoke

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Donka Keskinova

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper offers a synthesis of a new analytical procedure based on the complementary use of a large number of methods and techniques for categorization of objects, pattern recognition and for structural analysis. It represents an example of a functional clustering [1] and an extension to the ‘posteriori methods’ for clusterisation [2]. We call this approach Multi-Stage Clustering (MSC), as it applies cluster analysis methods at three distinctive stages. We present the MSC and demonstrate its application to a business data set of 275 multinational corporations (MNCs), aiming to address the inherent weaknesses of existing industrial classification tools designed to capture diversification of firms. We evaluate the outcomes from the MSC using a combination of complementary methods for structural analysis and data visualization, such as multi-dimensional scaling (MDS), network mapping (NM) and multiple correspondence analysis (MCA). The MSC is designed for the analysis of diversification patterns of MNCs, which can enable the measurement of group competitiveness and performance across these patterns, known as industry segments, or strategic industry groups (SIGs).

Keywords: Multistage Cluster Analysis, Data Categorization, Pattern Recognition, Industry Classification, Multidimensional Scaling, Network Analysis, Multiple Correspondence Analysis

JEL Classification: A14, C29, C30, C40, C43, C99

Suggested Citation:

Todeva, Emanuela and Knoke, David and Keskinova, Donka, Multi-Stage Clustering with Complementary Structural Analysis of 2-Mode Networks (September 1, 2019). Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining, ASONAM 2019, ACM 978-1-4503-6868-1/19/08. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J Jacques , C Preda
Functional data clustering: a survey
Advances in Data Analysis and Classification , volume 8 , p. 231 - 255 Posted: 2014
S D Pimentel
Choosing a clustering: a posteriori method for social networks
Journal of Social Structure , volume 15 Posted: 2014-01
X Shi
The outward FDI strategies of Chinese MNEs: an empirical study of the role of business group affiliation and state ownership types, Durham theses Posted: 2018
J Nightingale
On the definition of 'industry' and 'market
Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 40 Posted: 1978-09
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
524,565
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies