Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Accounting Fraud in Publicly Traded U.S. Firms Using a Machine Learning Approach

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 58, Issue 1, March 2020

Posted: 9 Mar 2020

Yang Bao

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Antai College of Economics and Management

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Y. Julia Yu

University of Virginia

Jie Zhang

Nanyang Technological University (NTU)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2020

Abstract

We develop a state‐of‐the‐art fraud prediction model using a machine learning approach. We demonstrate the value of combining domain knowledge and machine learning methods in model building. We select our model input based on existing accounting theories, but we differ from prior accounting research by using raw accounting numbers rather than financial ratios. We employ one of the most powerful machine learning methods, ensemble learning, rather than the commonly used method of logistic regression. To assess the performance of fraud prediction models, we introduce a new performance evaluation metric commonly used in ranking problems that is more appropriate for the fraud prediction task. Starting with an identical set of theory‐motivated raw accounting numbers, we show that our new fraud prediction model outperforms two benchmark models by a large margin: the Dechow et al. logistic regression model based on financial ratios, and the Cecchini et al. support‐vector‐machine model with a financial kernel that maps raw accounting numbers into a broader set of ratios.

Keywords: fraud prediction; machine learning; ensemble learning

JEL Classification: C53; M41

Suggested Citation:

Bao, Yang and Ke, Bin and Yu, Yingri Julia and Zhang, Jie, Detecting Accounting Fraud in Publicly Traded U.S. Firms Using a Machine Learning Approach (March 1, 2020). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 58, Issue 1, March 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3538453
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,842
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies