Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reproducibility in Accounting Research: Views of the Research Community

35 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2020 Last revised: 7 Apr 2020

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 15, 2020

Abstract

We have little knowledge about the prevalence of irreproducibility in the accounting literature. To narrow this gap, we conducted a survey among the participants of the 2019 JAR Conference on their perceptions of the frequency, causes and consequences of irreproducible research published in accounting journals. A majority of respondents believe that irreproducibility is common in the literature, constitutes a major problem and receives too little attention. Most have encountered irreproducibility in the work of others (although not in their own work) but chose not to pursue their failed reproduction attempts to publication. Respondents believe irreproducibility results chiefly from career or publication incentives as well as from selective reporting of results. They also believe that practices like sharing code and data combined with stronger incentives to replicate the work of others would enhance reproducibility. The views of accounting researchers are remarkably similar to those expressed in a survey by the scientific journal Nature. We conclude by discussing the implications of our findings and provide several potential paths forward for the accounting research community.

Keywords: accounting research, ethics, expert survey, publication process, research methodology, replication, reproducibility

JEL Classification: A14, B41, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hail, Luzi and Lang, Mark H. and Leuz, Christian, Reproducibility in Accounting Research: Views of the Research Community (March 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3554020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3554020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
C ; J Bailey , Hasselback; And J , Karcher
Research Misconduct in Accounting Literature: A Survey of the Most Prolific Researchers' Actions and Beliefs
Abacus , volume 37 , p. 26 - 54 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Baker
Is there a Reproducibility Crisis?
Nature , volume 533 , p. 452 - 54 Posted: 2016
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 78 Posted: 1968
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
Ball and Brown (1968) after Fifty Years
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 53 , p. 410 - 441 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,536
RANK
127,516
22 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies