Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Speculative Stock Price and Inadequacy of the Implied Cost of Capital as a Proxy for Expected Return

71 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2020

Robert Fong

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: March 18, 2020

Abstract

The implied cost of capital (ICC), the internal rate of return that equates speculative stock price to discounted expected future dividends, includes a mispricing-driven component in addition to expected return. The estimated relation of a mispricing-associated factor (X) with ICC is thus a potentially biased estimate of X’s relation with expected return because it captures X’s relation with both expected return and the mispricing-driven component. The sign of X’s relation with the mispricing-driven component switches between undervalued and overvalued stocks. It is unfeasible to calibrate the sign and magnitude of X’s relation with the mispricing-driven component. Existing methods do not seem able to address the bias resulting from X’s relation with the mispricing-driven component. Therefore, ICC is an inadequate proxy for expected return when examining the relation of a mispricing-associated factor with expected return, which evidence based on eleven mispricing-associated factors shows to be the case.

Keywords: implied cost of capital; expected return; mispricing; bias

JEL Classification: C13; G12; G14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Fong, Robert, Speculative Stock Price and Inadequacy of the Implied Cost of Capital as a Proxy for Expected Return (March 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3556359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3556359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
713,531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies