Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Disclosure Repetition and Interactivity Influence Investors’ Judgments?

52 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2020 Last revised: 15 Dec 2021

Nerissa C. Brown

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Brian Gale

University of Washington - Department of Accounting; University of Washington

Stephanie M. Grant

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 14, 2021

Abstract

Recent regulatory amendments aimed at modernizing disclosures and enhancing their usefulness focus on repetition and interactivity within firms’ disclosure filings. We use two experiments to provide evidence on the effects of disclosure repetition (repeating of information in the filing) and disclosure interactivity (user involvement in directing the form or content of the information displayed) on investors’ information processing and investment judgments. Results show that repetition increases investors’ processing of repeated information, consistent with the informational role of repetition documented in prior research. In contrast, repetition reduces investors’ processing of other, non-repeated information when the filing is less interactive. This evidence corroborates concerns that repetition can obscure value-relevant information from investors. However, we find that more interactive disclosures mitigate this harmful effect of repetition on investors’ processing of non-repeated information. Further, more interactive disclosures lead to deeper overall processing of both repeated and non-repeated information, rather than more interactive disclosures redirecting investors’ attention and processing away from repeated information. Thus, our evidence suggests that disclosure interactivity is an important disclosure attribute that counteracts the potentially harmful effects of repetition on investors' processing of non-repeated information, while preserving repetition’s informational role.

Keywords: repetition; interactivity; information processing; investment judgments

JEL Classification: M41; G11; G14; C91; D83

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Nerissa C. and Gale, Brian and Grant, Stephanie M., How Do Disclosure Repetition and Interactivity Influence Investors’ Judgments? (December 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3557891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3557891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
American Bar , Association Aba)
Letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission Re: Business and Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K (Release No , volume 33 Posted: 2017
I Begg , V Armour , T Kerr
On Believing What We Remember
Canadian Journal of Behavioral Science , volume 17 , p. 199 - 214 Posted: 1985
T Besedes , C Deck , S Sarangi , M Shor
Reducing Choice Overload without Reducing Choices
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 97 , p. 793 - 802 Posted: 2015
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure Processing Costs, Investors' Information Choice, and Equity Market Outcomes: A Review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,602
RANK
158,915
2 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies