Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Learning and Textual Analysis of Accounting Disclosures: Applying Big Data Methods to Small(er) Data Sets

Accounting Horizons

49 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2020 Last revised: 24 Feb 2021

Federico Siano

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Peter D. Wysocki

Boston University Questrom School of Business

Date Written: March 20, 2020

Abstract

We introduce and apply machine transfer learning methods to analyze accounting disclosures. We use the examples of the new BERT language model and sentiment analysis of quarterly earnings disclosures to demonstrate the key transfer learning concepts of:

(i) pre-training on generic “Big Data”,

(ii) fine-tuning on small accounting data-sets, and

(iii) using a language model that captures context rather than stand-alone words.

Overall, we show that this new approach is easy to implement, uses widely-available and low-cost computing resources, and has superior performance relative to existing textual analysis tools in accounting. We conclude with suggestions for opportunities to apply transfer learning to address important accounting research questions.

Keywords: Disclosure, Earnings Announcement, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Neural Network, Textual Analysis, Transfer Learning

JEL Classification: G31, G32, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Siano, Federico and Wysocki, Peter D., Transfer Learning and Textual Analysis of Accounting Disclosures: Applying Big Data Methods to Small(er) Data Sets (March 20, 2020). Accounting Horizons, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3560355 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3560355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
K D Allee , M Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D T Araci , R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997-12
Crossref
I Beltagy , K Lo , A Cohan
SCIBERT: A pretrained language model for scientific text Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Filippo Chiarello , Paola Belingheri , Andrea Bonaccorsi , Gualtiero Fantoni , Antonella Martini
Value creation in emerging technologies through text mining: the case of blockchain
Technology Analysis & Strategic Management , p. 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,803
RANK
31,419
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies