Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time-Series Properties of Quarterly Aggregate Earnings

42 Pages Posted: 26 May 2020

Koren M. Jo

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

William M. Cready

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: May 31, 2019

Abstract

This analysis examines the time-series properties of quarterly aggregate earnings. We find that when aggregated, quarterly earnings can be fairly well described as following a simple random walk (RW) process. That is, the best historical time-series predictor for quarterly aggregated earnings is aggregated earnings from the prior quarter and this specification, in particular, outperforms a seasonal random walk (SRW) specification. Hence, unlike firm level earnings, the seasonal earnings lag is not the best single value predictor for aggregate earnings. When we consider more complicated multi-variable RW changes specifications, we find that the use of first or second order autocorrelation provides some improvement in specification. Finally, drawing on prior work by Sadka and Sadka (2009), we demonstrate the empirical relevance of the choice between an RW and an SRW “surprise” specification by identifying substantive differences in how each is predicted by lagged market returns.

Keywords: Aggregate Earnings, Random Walk, Time-Series Properties

JEL Classification: C22, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jo, Koren M. and Cready, William M., Time-Series Properties of Quarterly Aggregate Earnings (May 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3565644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3565644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
RANK
413,842
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies