Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence-Informed Audit Standard Setting: Exploring Evidence Use and Knowledge Transfer in Development of the Group Audit Standard

72 Pages Posted: 1 May 2020

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Yi Luo

Ivey Business School, Western University

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

Academics and practitioners agree there are substantial barriers to systematically transferring audit research knowledge to policymakers. We adopt a design science approach to investigate the efficacy of employing a research synthesis to transfer academic research knowledge to audit standard setters. We create a real-time simulation with former standard setters, based on a group audit issue that arose in actual deliberations, to represent a “typical” instantiation of the knowledge transfer problem. Following design science prescriptions, we evaluate the pragmatic validity of the prototype synthesis, its creation process, and related interactive communication with our standard setters. We provide initial evidence (“proof of concept”) that a research synthesis can effectively and efficiently transfer audit research knowledge to audit standard setters. A key implication is that an individual research article’s main role in knowledge transfer to audit practice is as an input into a research synthesis that informs specific practice concerns.

Keywords: Standard Setting, Audit, Evidence Based Policy Making, Simulation, Design Science

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Kris and Luo, Yi and Salterio, Steven E., Evidence-Informed Audit Standard Setting: Exploring Evidence Use and Knowledge Transfer in Development of the Group Audit Standard (April 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3569774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3569774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
R Dickson , G M Cherry , A Boland
Carrying out a Systematic Review as a Master's Thesis' , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2014
D School
About Us: 8 Core Abilities Posted: 2010
D M Eddy
Evidence-Based Medicine: A Unified Approach , volume 24 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Evans , R Burritt , J Guthrie
Bridging the Gap between Academic Accounting Research and Professional Practice Posted: 1931-04-26
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
303,587
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies