Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
And the Winner is... the Corporate Reporting Institution: Annual Report Awards as Sites of Translation, Diffusion and Boundary Spanning Work

70 Pages Posted: 13 May 2020 Last revised: 23 Sep 2025

Jacqueline Gagnon

University of Regina

Steven Young

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Paulo Alves

Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Católica Porto Business School; Lancaster University Management School - ICRA

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

Annual report awards are an enduring feature of the UK reporting landscape. This study presents private sector awards as a site of institutional work that supports the regulation of corporate reporting by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) via shared understanding, boundary crossing and legitimizing. Combining data on awards’ judging panel membership, best practice reporting examples cited by the FRC, and the semantic properties of award-nominated reports, analyses reveal how awards coalesce a wide range of financial market actors to collectively translate ambiguous FRC regulatory principles into concrete practice, diffuse best practice, and provide validation of both the FRC’s reporting ambition and preparers’ actualization of that ambition. Central to these outcomes is the FRC’s own boundary work to facilitate collaboration, including direct participation in awards judging panels and creation of an innovative relational space – the FRC Lab – to support closer interactions. Results illustrate the private governance role of awards in the process of maintaining UK corporate reporting.

Keywords: institutional work, shared understanding, boundary architect, principles-based regulation, relational space

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Gagnon, Jacqui and Young, Steven and Alves, Paulo, And the Winner is... the Corporate Reporting Institution: Annual Report Awards as Sites of Translation, Diffusion and Boundary Spanning Work (September 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3575679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3575679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review Posted: 2006
P Baker , T R Schatzki , K Knorr Cetina , E Von Savigny
Using Corpora in Discourse Analysis. Bloomsbury Discourse Series
The Practice Turn in Contemporary Theory , p. 17 - 28 Posted: 2001
M E Barth , S F Cahan , L Chen , E Venter , R
The economic consequences associated with integrated report quality: Capital market and real effects , volume 62 , p. 43 - 64 Posted: 2017
C A Botosan , M A Plumlee
A re-examination of disclosure level and the expected cost of equity capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 21 - 40 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,929
RANK
198,235
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies