Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Method for Assessing the Construct Validity of Accounting Measures: Looking Where the Action is

48 Pages Posted: 12 May 2020 Last revised: 23 Nov 2020

Cristi A. Gleason

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Bradford Hepfer

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

W. Bruce Johnson

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Sam Melessa

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 2020

Abstract

We propose and demonstrate a new method for validating proxies for accounting constructs. Our method consists of first identifying high-value observations, which are those statistically most responsible for generating a coefficient of interest, and second determining whether those observations exhibit accounting attributes consistent with theory. This method allows researchers to validate proxies for key theoretical constructs by testing whether high-value observations contain the accounting attributes implied by the theory and lack attributes that run counter to the theory. The method also allows researchers to identify potentially confounding factors and to address alternative explanations for primary results. We demonstrate the method by assessing the validity of two measures for conditional accounting conservatism. However, the method applies generally to large-sample settings and is flexible in its application to key coefficients. We also demonstrate how researchers can compare alternative measures of the same construct to select the best measure for their research context.

Keywords: construct validity, high-value observations, measurement

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C20

Suggested Citation:

Gleason, Cristi A. and Hepfer, Bradford and Johnson, W. Bruce and Melessa, Sam, A New Method for Assessing the Construct Validity of Accounting Measures: Looking Where the Action is (November 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3575883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3575883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
V A Atanasov , B S Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 8304 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , V V Nikolaev
On estimating conditional conservatism
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 755 - 787 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , V V Nikolaev
Econometrics of the Basu asymmetric timeliness coefficient and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 1071 - 1097 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,699
RANK
277,353
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies