Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Python for Text Analysis in Accounting Research

Vic Anand, Khrystyna Bochkay, Roman Chychyla and Andrew Leone (2020), "Using Python for Text Analysis in Accounting Research", Foundations and Trends® in Accounting: Vol. 14: No. 3–4, pp 128-359. http://dx.doi.org/10.1561/1400000062

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3576098

223 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2020 Last revised: 5 Dec 2020

Vic Anand

Texas State University, San Marcos - Department of Accounting

Khrystyna Bochkay

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Roman Chychyla

University of Miami - School of Business Administration

Andrew J. Leone

Northwestern University

Date Written: September 23, 2020

Abstract

The prominence of textual data in accounting research has increased dramatically. To assist researchers in understanding and using textual data, this monograph defines and describes common measures of textual data and then demonstrates the collection and processing of textual data using the Python programming language. The monograph is replete with sample code that replicates textual analysis tasks from recent research papers.

In the first part of the monograph, we provide guidance on getting started in Python. We first describe Anaconda, a distribution of Python that provides the requisite libraries for textual analysis, and its installation. We then introduce the Jupyter notebook, a programming environment that improves research workflows and promotes replicable research. Next, we teach the basics of Python programming and demonstrate the basics of working with tabular data in the Pandas package.

The second part of the monograph focuses on specific textual analysis methods and techniques commonly used in accounting research. We first introduce regular expressions, a sophisticated language for finding patterns in text. We then show how to use regular expressions to extract specific parts from text. Next, we introduce the idea of transforming text data (unstructured data) into numerical measures representing variables of interest (structured data). Specifically, we introduce dictionary-based methods of 1) measuring document sentiment, 2) computing text complexity, 3) identifying forward-looking sentences and risk disclosures, 4) collecting informative numbers in text, and 5) computing the similarity of different pieces of text. For each of these tasks, we cite relevant papers and provide code snippets to implement the relevant metrics from these papers.

Finally, the third part of the monograph focuses on automating the collection of textual data. We introduce web scraping and provide code for downloading filings from EDGAR.

Keywords: Text analysis, data collection, Python, natural language processing

JEL Classification: B4, C8, M41

Suggested Citation:

Anand, Vic and Bochkay, Khrystyna and Chychyla, Roman and Leone, Andrew J., Using Python for Text Analysis in Accounting Research (September 23, 2020). Vic Anand, Khrystyna Bochkay, Roman Chychyla and Andrew Leone (2020), "Using Python for Text Analysis in Accounting Research", Foundations and Trends® in Accounting: Vol. 14: No. 3–4, pp 128-359. http://dx.doi.org/10.1561/1400000062, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3576098, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
<? xml version = " 1.0 " encoding = " US -ASCII " ? > <! --XBRL Document Created with WebFilings
Crossref
&lt;! --P
, p. 1 - 976
&lt; Xbrli
Disentangling managers' and analysts' non-GAAP reporting
xbrl xmlns : country = , volume 56 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
Jeremiah W. Bentley , Kyle Stubbs , Yushi Tian , Robert Lowell Whited
Manipulating the Narrative: Managerial Discretion in the Use of Plain English in Earnings Announcements
Pages: 82 Posted: 19 Dec 2019 Last revised: 22 Mar 2021
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,237
RANK
5,546
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies