Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Development of the Beneish Model by Combining Artificial Neural Network and Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm for Earnings Management Prediction

Asgari Alouj, H., Nikbakht, M.R., Karami, GH., & Momeni, M(2020). Development of the Beneish Model by Combining Artificial Neural Network and Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm for Earnings Management Prediction, Accounting and Auditing Review, 26(4), 615-638,

26 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020 Last revised: 17 Oct 2023

Hosein Asgari Alouj

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Bilesavar branch

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Objective: According to Beneish (1999), “earnings manipulation happens as an instance where management violates Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in order to beneficially represent the firm’s financial performance.” In this research, the development of the Beneish model (DBM) was done through emphasizing non-accounting variables,including the Information Asymmetry (IS) and Product Market Competition (PMC).

Methods: The data was collected for 184 companies listed in the Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE) during the past 11 years 2006-2017. The coefficients of models were estimated by trained Artificial Neural Network (ANN) through PSO algorithm. In order to provide the potential of comparability, ten run with 300 iterations in each run were done for both the Beneish model (BM) and (DBM), then were stopped after convergence.

Results: Research results indicate that training error of ANN trained by PSO algorithm measured by mean square error (MSE) was reduced from 0/0807 to 0/0777 by the development of BM. The area under Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) for BM was calculated up to 0/5792, which is located in very low confidence range of 0/5-0/6, indicating failed test result and high prediction error up to 39/74 percent. Consequently the best cut-off point and the best precision for BM were estimated to be 0/5021, 60/26 percent, by the maximum accuracy method, respectively. Furthermore, the results show that the AUC for DBM was increased to 0/6335 through incorporating environmental variables of Product Market Competition (PMC) and information symmetry (IS) to the BM, which is still out of an acceptable range of 0/7–0/8 for a relatively good test, indicating poor test result and high model prediction error up to 32/58 percent. Consequently the best cut-off point and the best precision for DBM were estimated to be 0/5304, 67/42 percent by the intersection point of minimum distance and Youden's index, respectively. Incorporating PMC and IS variables to the original model of Beneish decreased model prediction error from 39/74 to 32/58 percent, which is not statistically significant. Nevertheless, this fact improved the predictive power of the BM slightly insignificant.

Conclusion: The findings indicate that the BM is a random modelin Iranian capital market and impotent to detect two groups of earning manipulator and non-earning manipulator companies. Although findings indicate that the DBM is a little bit more powerful than the BM and confirm that the impact of environmental variables of PMC and IS is slightly insignificant, indicating the test outcome is still weak and the DBM is an approximately random model in identifying two groups of earning manipulator and non-earning manipulator companies

Keywords: Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm, Product Competition Market, Artificial Neural Network, Benish Model, Information Environment

Suggested Citation:

Asgari Alouj, Hosein, Development of the Beneish Model by Combining Artificial Neural Network and Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm for Earnings Management Prediction (2020). Asgari Alouj, H., Nikbakht, M.R., Karami, GH., & Momeni, M(2020). Development of the Beneish Model by Combining Artificial Neural Network and Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm for Earnings Management Prediction, Accounting and Auditing Review, 26(4), 615-638, , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3577131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Tarjoa
Romero Orellana , Garrido
A Ajina , A Habib
Examining the relationship between Earning management and market liquidity
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 42 , p. 1164 - 1172 Posted: 2017
Bahri Sales , J Pak Maram , A Qaderi , G
Explanation of the relationship between product market competition and corporate earnings management (Evidence from discretionary Accruals items)
Quarterly journal of Management Accounting , volume 11 , issue 38 , p. 15 - 26 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
RANK
534,717
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies