Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Words Beneficial to the Consumption of Numbers in Financial Reports?

54 Pages Posted: 19 May 2020 Last revised: 17 Aug 2022

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: August 17, 2022

Abstract

We propose that narratives in financial disclosures are used to complement, expand upon, and provide context to numerical disclosures. We define narrativization as the proportion of words to numbers in specific disclosures and examine whether greater narrativization contributes to disclosure quality. We focus on disclosures in three inherently complicated footnotes and the Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) in annual filings. Using comment letters (CLs) to capture regulators’ perspectives of disclosure deficiencies, we find that the narrativization in each disclosure is associated with a lower likelihood of receiving a CL related to the topic of that disclosure. We further find that the narrativization of the MD&A is associated with lower analyst forecast errors, a stronger market reaction, and greater liquidity. These results suggest that the use of more words to explain numbers in financial reports reduces the likelihood of regulators’ intervention and increases the usefulness of disclosures for analysts and investors. Hence, companies should consider including sufficient narratives to explain numerical information.

Keywords: Narrativization, textual analysis, disclosure quality, disclosure complexity, XBRL, financial statement footnotes, management discussion and analysis

JEL Classification: N20, M40, M41, G18, G28

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Are Words Beneficial to the Consumption of Numbers in Financial Reports? (August 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3582662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3582662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
K D Allee , C Do , H Do
Contextualization of numbers in earnings conference calls Posted: 2021
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
O E Barron , C O Kile , T B O'keefe
MD&A quality as measured by the SEC and analysts' earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
659
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,423
RANK
91,487
7 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies