Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ratchet Effect: Theory and Empirical Evidence

42 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020 Last revised: 22 Jun 2022

Michal Matejka

Arizona State University

Matthias D. Mahlendorf

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Utz Schäffer

WHU Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: June 21, 2022

Abstract

Using current performance to set future targets can discourage effort and reduce performance. Our study examines whether this ratchet effect also undermines incentives of high-level managers and executives. We use a dynamic model to show that empirical tests used in prior literature can falsely reject the null hypothesis of no ratchet effect. We also motivate a new test that can better detect the adverse incentives effects of target setting. Specifically, we show that the ratchet effect can be identified as the effect of past performance on changes in perceived target difficulty. We use panel data from nine annual 2011–2019 surveys to implement this test. Similar to prior studies, we find strong evidence that targets are revised upward following good performance. Nevertheless, we reject the ratchet effect hypothesis because we further find that good performance in one period is associated with a decrease in perceived target difficulty in the next period. This finding is more pronounced in settings where well-performing managers have more private information about future performance and where long-term commitments are more credible.

Keywords: Ratchet Effect, Dynamic Incentives, Target Updating

JEL Classification: M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Matejka, Michal and Mahlendorf, Matthias D. and Schäffer, Utz, The Ratchet Effect: Theory and Empirical Evidence (June 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3583697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
V V Acharya , K John , R K Sundaram
On the optimality of resetting executive stock options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 57 , p. 65 - 101 Posted: 2000
S Anderson , H Dekker , K Sedatole , E Wiersma
When one size does not fit all: Using ex post subjective ratings to provide parity in risk-adjusted compensation
Management Accounting Research , volume 49 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2020
S W Anderson , H C Dekker , K L Sedatole
An empirical examination of goals and performance-to-goal following the introduction of an incentive bonus plan with participative goal-setting
Management Science , volume 56 , p. 90 - 109 Posted: 2010
C Aranda , J Arellano , A Davila
Ratcheting and the role of relative target setting
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 1197 - 1226 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
661
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,950
RANK
91,313
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies