Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Reliance on Opaque Audit Methods: The Effects of Auditor Ownership and Task Experience

50 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2020 Last revised: 22 Dec 2023

Kathryn M. Holmstrom

Iowa State University - College of Business

Date Written: December 4, 2023

Abstract

Increasing access to data and advanced statistical methods can help auditors generate independent audit evidence such as independent expectations of estimates; however, such evidence is not useful unless auditors rely on it. I argue that advanced statistical methods are more opaque and that opacity affects the understanding and reliance on output of the methods. I further predict that psychological ownership of evidence increases reliance on evidence, especially when using more opaque methods. I conduct two experiments with auditors and find that task experience moderates my predicted effects. The results support my predicted interaction, specifically for auditors with moderate experience with the estimate settings. The results further suggest that my predicted effects may also depend on the relative complexity of the estimate (e.g., product warranty versus allowance for doubtful accounts). This study provides insights into auditors’ use of independent expectations and advanced methods that are becoming increasingly pervasive in practice.

Keywords: opacity; psychological ownership; control; management estimates; independent estimates; audit evidence; data analytics

Suggested Citation:

Holmstrom, Kathryn, Auditor Reliance on Opaque Audit Methods: The Effects of Auditor Ownership and Task Experience (December 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3596478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3596478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Guide to Audit Data Analytics Posted: 2017
A Austin , J Hammersley , M Ricci
Improving auditors' consideration of evidence contradicting management's assumptions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 696 - 716 Posted: 2020
A Austin , T Carpenter , M Christ , C Nielson
The Data Analytics Journey: Interactions among Auditors, Managers, Regulation, and Technology , volume 28 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2022
T Bauer , C Estep , E Griffith
Does Psychological Ownership Improve Team Member Contributions? Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,967
RANK
149,425
3 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies