Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implied Cost of Capital: A Deep Learning Approach

50 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2020

Xinyu Wang

Valdosta State University

Date Written: May 27, 2020

Abstract

I exploit deep learning techniques trained on a set of common accounting items and constructed to mimic features of the human brain to predict future earnings. I show that this model offers incremental explanatory power in predicting future earnings and in estimating the associated implied cost of capital. My forecasting model exhibits less bias than human analyst forecasts and fits the data substantially better than linear regression models. In addition, the derived implied cost-of-capital estimates substantially outperform linear models in their ability to predict future returns. This study illustrates the power of machine learning techniques to improve the accuracy of accounting forecasting.

Keywords: Implied cost of capital; earnings forecasts; machine learning; deep learning; deep neural network; expected returns.

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xinyu, The Implied Cost of Capital: A Deep Learning Approach (May 27, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3612472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3612472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
H A Abdou , S T Alam , J Mulkeen
Would credit scoring work for Islamic finance? A neural network approach
International Journal of Islamic and Middle Eastern Finance and Management , volume 7 , p. 112 - 125 Posted: 2014
Crossref
E I Altman , G Marco , F Varetto
Corporate distress diagnosis: Comparisons using linear discriminant analysis and neural networks (the Italian experience)
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 18 , p. 505 - 529 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Amir Amel-Zadeh , Jan-Peter Calliess , Daniel Kaiser , Stephen Roberts
Machine Learning-Based Financial Statement Analysis
Pages: 69 Posted: 27 Jan 2020 Last revised: 3 Dec 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,387
RANK
125,691
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies