Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Striking Oil in the Boardroom: Overpaying Executives through Manipulating Performance Metrics

110 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2020 Last revised: 29 Aug 2025

Vladimir A. Atanasov

William and Mary - Raymond A. Mason School of Business

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Maria Boutchkova

University of Edinburgh

Date Written: August 28, 2025

Abstract

Despite recent improvements to executive pay versus performance disclosure regulation, the available regulatory guidance regarding performance metric disclosure continues to be inconsistent and confusing. To inform this ongoing issue, we examine the distribution of performance metrics used to calculate executive compensation in a sample of U.S. oil and gas firms. Using hand-collected data, we find that the distribution of actual-minus-target differences is significantly discontinuous at zero over the 13-year period from 2006 to 2018. Executives are nearly three times more likely to just meet or beat than to just miss performance targets. When we split metrics into transparent and non-transparent measures, we find significant discontinuities in the non-transparent group for the full sample period, as well as before and after 2011 when Say-on-Pay was required by the Dodd-Frank Act and the SEC updated its guidance for non-GAAP performance metrics in proxy statements. Significant discontinuities disappear when firms are financially distressed and have stronger monitoring. Our findings suggest that managers can routinely manipulate realized performance metrics to increase performance-based compensation. Our framework can help investors in their firm governance assessments and the SEC in its redesign and enforcement of disclosure rules for performance metrics.

Keywords: executive compensation, manipulation, transparency, performance measures, discontinuity

JEL Classification: G34, J33, M12, M52, Q40

Suggested Citation:

Atanasov, Vladimir A. and Black, Dirk E. and Boutchkova, Maria, Striking Oil in the Boardroom: Overpaying Executives through Manipulating Performance Metrics (August 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3615090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3615090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M Abromowitz , M Langston , K Afref
Observations from S&P500 Pay vs Performance Disclosures Posted: 2022
A M Albuquerque , B Bennett , C Custodio , D Cvijanovic
CEO Compensation and Real Estate Prices: Pay for Luck or Pay for Action?
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2018
A M Albuquerque , G De Franco , R S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
C Armstrong , J Chau , C D Ittner , J J Xiao
Internal Versus External Earnings per Share Goals and CEO Incentives
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,405
RANK
180,781
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies