Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Explanatory Power of Explanatory Variables

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020 Last revised: 30 May 2023

Erik Johannesson

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

James A. Ohlson

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Sophia Weihuan Zhai

Xiamen University

Date Written: May 23, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the current empirical accounting research paradigm. We ask: in general, do the estimated regressions support the promoted narratives? We focus on a regression model’s main variable of interest and consider the extent to which it contributes to the explanation of the dependent variable. We replicate ten recently published accounting studies, all of which rely on significant t-statistics, per conventional levels, to claim rejection of the null hypothesis. Our examination shows that in eight studies, the incremental explanatory power contributed by the main variable of interest is effectively zero. For the remaining two, the incremental contribution is at best marginal. These findings highlight the apparent overreliance on t-statistics as the primary evaluation metric. A closer examination of the data shows that the t-statistics produced reject the null hypothesis primarily due to a large number of observations (N). Empirical accounting studies often require N > 10,000 to reject the null hypothesis. To avoid the drawback of t-statistics’ connection with N, we consider the implications of using Standardized Regressions (SR). The magnitude of SR coefficients indicates variables’ relevance directly. Empirical analyses establish a strong correlation between a variable’s estimated SR coefficient magnitude and its incremental explanatory power, without reference to N or t-statistics.

Keywords: incremental explanatory power, t-statistics, large N, standardized regressions, SR.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Johannesson, Erik and Ohlson, James A. and Zhai, Sophia Weihuan, The Explanatory Power of Explanatory Variables (May 23, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3622743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3622743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Abadie
Statistical Nonsignificance in Empirical Economics
American Economic Review: Insights , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 208 Posted: 2020
A A Afifi , V Clarke
Computer Aided Multivariate Analysis Posted: 1990
I Andrews , M Kasy
Identification of and Correction for Publication Bias
American Economic Review , volume 109 , issue 8 , p. 2766 - 2794 Posted: 2019
B S Black , H Desai , K Litvak , W Yoo , J J Yu
Pre-analysis plan for the reg sho reanalysis project Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
498
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,258
RANK
130,317
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies