Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Firm-Specific Dividend Drop-Off Ratios be Used to Infer Shareholder Marginal Tax Rates?

Accounting & Finance, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Andrew Ainsworth

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Adrian D. Lee

Deakin University - Department of Finance (Property and Real Estate)

Terry S. Walter

University of Sydney; University of Technology, Sydney - School of Finance and Economics; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: April 5, 2017

Abstract

In a seminal study, Elton and Gruber (1970) argue that ex-dividend day pricing can be used to infer the marginal tax rates of shareholders. If this view is correct, managers of individual firms would be provided with information of relevance to major financing and distribution decisions. We examine ex-dividend day pricing for individual firms and ask whether their CFOs could use the history of a firm’s ex-dividend price-drop to dividend ratios to infer reasonable estimates of their shareholders’ marginal tax rates. We use TAQ data for 1,124 US firms that have at least 30 ex-dividend days during a sample period from August 1993 to October 2012. Our results show that ex-dividend day pricing is so noisy as to prohibit sensible estimates of shareholders’ marginal tax rates. In addition, the results indicate that drop-off ratios generally lie within transaction cost boundaries, consistent with a limits to arbitrage transactions’ cost explanation provided by Kalay (1982).

Keywords: Ex-dividend day,drop off ratio, marginal tax rate

JEL Classification: G10

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Andrew and Lee, Adrian D. and Walter, Terry Stirling, Can Firm-Specific Dividend Drop-Off Ratios be Used to Infer Shareholder Marginal Tax Rates? (April 5, 2017). Accounting & Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3622752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3622752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Ainsworth , T Lee , Walter
Do Frictions Associated with Market Microstructure Explain the Ex-Dividend Day Anomaly?" Working paper Posted: 2017
R Bali , G L Hite
Ex dividend Day Stock Price Behavior: Discreteness or Taxinduced Clienteles?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 47 , p. 127 - 159 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M J Barclay
Dividends, Taxes, and Common Stock Prices: The Ex-dividend Day Behavior of Common Stock Prices before the Income Tax
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 19 , p. 31 - 44 Posted: 1987
L Bell , T Jenkinson
New Evidence of the Impact of Dividend Taxation and on the Identity of the Marginal Investor
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 1321 - 1346 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
962
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies