Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Tightly Contested Governance Proposals on Firms' Narrative Disclosures: Evidence from a Regression-Discontinuity Design (RDD)

63 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020 Last revised: 30 Nov 2021

Abhishek Ganguly

University of Oklahoma

Arup Ganguly

University of Mississippi

Lin Ge

University of Mississippi

Chad J. Zutter

University of Pittsburgh

Date Written: January 15, 2021

Abstract

Corporate governance and disclosure are endogenously determined. We exploit locally exogenous variations in corporate governance created by “close-call” governance-related shareholder proposals to examine whether the narrow passing of such proposals causally affects the narratives in disclosures. We find that the passage of governance-related proposals within the 5% bandwidth at the 50% threshold significantly increases the textual similarity in the narratives of 10-Ks. Moreover, firms that narrowly passed governance-related proposals within the 10% bandwidth also disclosed more with increased accounting complexity and poor readability, providing empirical support to the models that treat better governance and disclosures as substitutes rather than complements.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Textual Disclosure, Endogeneity, Regression Discontinuity Design (RDD), Computational Linguistics, Investor Distraction

JEL Classification: G23, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ganguly, Abhishek and Ganguly, Arup and Ge, Lin and Zutter, Chad J., The Impact of Tightly Contested Governance Proposals on Firms' Narrative Disclosures: Evidence from a Regression-Discontinuity Design (RDD) (January 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3622799 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3622799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
G Akerlof , A
The Market for Lemons: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
H Almeida , V Fos , M Kronlund
The real effects of share repurchases
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 168 - 185 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,764
RANK
369,949
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies