Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Co-Movements and the Informativeness of Earnings

ABACUS, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020 Last revised: 30 Oct 2024

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Chao Kevin Li

The University of Adelaide

Richard Donald Morris

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: May 1, 2020

Abstract

We examine the informativeness of earnings in the presence of earnings co-movements. Many theoretical studies infer that the more a firm’s earnings move with the market the less weight investors need to place on those earnings rendering them less informative. On the other hand, managers have less opportunity to bias the earnings signal the more earnings co-move, making them more reliable. We measure earnings co-movement using an industry-firm pairing correlational technique. Overall our results show both the degree of co-movements and the ordering of earnings announcements impacts on the informativeness of earnings as indicated by earnings response coefficients. Earnings responses are larger for firms that report earnings before their most highly correlated industry peer, but the responses are reduced as earnings co-movement increases. We interpret our results to indicate that the more earnings co-move with an industry peer the less informative earnings become, but only when the peer firm is able to obtain information at a later date.

Keywords: Earnings Co-Movements; Earnings Informativeness; Earnings Response Coefficients; Unexpected Earnings

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Andrew B. and Li, Chao and Morris, Richard Donald, Earnings Co-Movements and the Informativeness of Earnings (May 1, 2020). ABACUS, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J H Anthony , K R Petroni
Accounting Estimation Disclosures and Firm Valuation in the Property-Casualty Insurance Industry
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 257 - 281 Posted: 1997
O E Barron , P S Stuerke
Dispersion in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts as a Measure of Uncertainty
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 245 - 270 Posted: 1998
W Beaver , P Kettler , M Scholes
The Association Between Market Determined and Accounting Determined Risk Measures
The Accounting Review , volume 45 , issue 4 , p. 654 - 682 Posted: 1970
P Brown , R Ball
Some Preliminary Findings on the Association Between the Earnings of a Firm, Its Industry, and the Economy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 1967
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
893
RANK
614,231
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies