Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Disclosure and Consequences of U.S. Critical Audit Matters

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2021-0013

83 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2020 Last revised: 29 Jun 2022

Jenna Burke

University of Colorado at Denver

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Summer (Xia) Xiao

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: June 27, 2022

Abstract

This study uses difference-in-difference analyses to examine the consequences of adopting the U.S. critical audit matter (CAM) disclosure requirement for preparers and users of financial reports. The CAM requirement is one of the largest expansions of the U.S. audit report since the 1940s. We document significant changes to financial statement footnotes referenced by CAMs, which suggests an indirect consequence where management disclosure changes in areas that are expected to be scrutinized following auditor-provided disclosure. Results also suggest that, on average, CAM disclosures do not provide incremental information to the market. To further examine market reaction, we develop well-specified prediction models for the expected number and subject areas of CAMs. We find limited initial evidence that the market reacts negatively when unexpected CAMs are disclosed. Overall, our findings provide insights on the new CAM standard and particularly demonstrate its relevance to management disclosure decisions and to the market.

Keywords: Critical audit matters, PCAOB, expanded audit report, determinants, XBRL, footnote disclosure, textual analysis, market reaction, unexpected disclosures, audit quality, audit fees

JEL Classification: M42, G18, G28, F0

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Jenna and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi and Xiao, Summer (Xia), The Disclosure and Consequences of U.S. Critical Audit Matters (June 27, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2021-0013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3635477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3635477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis, and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
R Ballestero , J J Schmidt
Auditor involvement in the SEC comment letter process: Client advocate or investor protector Posted: 2022
J Bédard , N Gonthier-Besacier , A Schatt
Consequences of expanded audit reports: Evidence from the justifications of assessments in France
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 23 - 45 Posted: 2018
J W Bentley , T A Lambert , E Y Wang
The effect of increased audit disclosure on managers' real operating decisions: Evidence from disclosing critical audit matters
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 40 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,910
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,228
RANK
10,119
57 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies