Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neutrality of Narrative Discussion in Annual Reports of UK Listed Companies

Journal of Applied Accounting Research

34 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020 Last revised: 9 Jul 2020

Venancio Tauringana

University of Southampton

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: 2004

Abstract


This paper reports the results of a pilot study of an investigation of the neutrality of narrative discussion in annual reports of UK listed companies. Two indices, one each of ‘good’ news and ‘bad’ news contained in the statutory accounts were developed for each company on the basis of a pilot survey of finance directors. Another two indices, one each of ‘good’ news and ‘bad’ news were developed from the narrative section of the annual report for each company on the basis of whether the narrative discussion referred to selected items in the index of ‘good’ news or ‘bad’ news respectively, appearing in the statutory accounts. The narrative discussion and statutory accounts indices of ‘good’ news were compared for equality of means. Similarly the narrative discussion and statutory accounts indices of ‘bad’ news were compared. Finally, the proportions of ‘good’ news to ‘bad’ news in the narrative section of the annual report were compared to that of the statutory accounts section. The results indicate that narrative discussion index of ‘good’ news is significantly higher than that of the statutory accounts section. The results of the comparison of the narrative discussion and statutory accounts indices of ‘bad’ news suggest that mean of the former is significantly lower than the latter. The results of a comparison of the proportion of ‘good’ to ‘bad’ news in the narrative section to that of the statutory accounts section suggest that the proportion of ‘good’ to ‘bad’ news in the narrative section is higher than that of the statutory accounts. The implication of the results is that management focus on ‘good’ news and say little about ‘bad’ news contained in the statutory accounts in their narrative discussion. Hence the overall suggestion from the results is that management are not neutral in their narrative discussion.

Keywords: Neutrality, narrative discussion, statutory accounts, annual reports,good news, bad news

JEL Classification: M1, M4,M42

Suggested Citation:

Tauringana, Venancio and Chong, H Gin, Neutrality of Narrative Discussion in Annual Reports of UK Listed Companies (2004). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3643948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Accounting Standards Board (ASB). 1993. Operating and Financial Review
Accounting Standards Board (ASB). 1999. Statement of Principles for Financial Reporting
A A Alchian
Corporate Management and Property Rights
Economic Policy and the Regulation of Securities Posted: 1968
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organisation
American Economic Review , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
677
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies