Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robust Pricing and Hedging via Neural SDEs

34 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2020

Patryk Gierjatowicz

University of Edinburgh - School of Mathematics

Marc Sabate-Vidales

University of Edinburgh - School of Mathematics

David Siska

University of Edinburgh - School of Mathematics; Vega

Lukasz Szpruch

University of Edinburgh - School of Mathematics; The Alan Turing Institute; Simtopia

Zan Zuric

Kaiju Capital Management; Imperial College London - Department of Mathematics

Date Written: July 8, 2020

Abstract

Mathematical modelling is ubiquitous in the financial industry and drives key decision processes. Any given model provides only a crude approximation to reality and the risk of using an inadequate model is hard to detect and quantify. By contrast, modern data science techniques are opening the door to more robust and data-driven model selection mechanisms. However, most machine learning models are “black-boxes” as individual parameters do not have meaningful interpretation. The aim of this paper is to combine the above approaches achieving the best of both worlds. Combining neural networks with risk models based on classical stochastic differential equations (SDEs), we find robust bounds for prices of derivatives and the corresponding hedging strategies while incorporating relevant market data. The resulting model called neural SDE is an instantiation of generative models and is closely linked with the theory of causal optimal transport. Neural SDEs allow consistent calibration under both the risk-neutral and the real-world measures. Thus the model can be used to simulate market scenarios needed for assessing risk profiles and hedging strategies. We develop and analyse novel algorithms needed for efficient use of neural SDEs. We validate our approach with numerical experiments using both local and stochastic volatility models.

Keywords: Stochastic Differential Equations, Deep Neural Network, Derivative Pricing, Stochastic Gradient Descent

JEL Classification: G12, C45, C60, C63

Suggested Citation:

Gierjatowicz, Patryk and Sabate-Vidales, Marc and Siska, David and Szpruch, Lukasz and Zuric, Zan, Robust Pricing and Hedging via Neural SDEs (July 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3646241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3646241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
[ Acciaio
Causal optimal transport and its links to enlargement of filtrations and continuous-time stochastic optimization
Stochastic Processes and their Applications Posted: 2019
Crossref
Robust framework for quantifying the value of information in pricing and hedging
SIAM Journal on Financial Mathematics , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 59 Posted: 2020
D G Hobson
Robust hedging of the lookback option
Finance and Stochastics , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 329 - 347 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Hornik ; Hornik
Approximation capabilities of multilayer feedforward networks
Neural Networks , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 257 Posted: 1991
Load more
2 Citations
Samuel N. Cohen , Derek Snow , Lukasz Szpruch
Black-Box Model Risk in Finance
31 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 876
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Blanka Horvath , Josef Teichmann , Zan Zuric
Deep Hedging under Rough Volatility
Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 21-88 · 27 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 7 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 1,266
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,252
RANK
144,163
2 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies