Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Belief Distortions and Macroeconomic Fluctuations

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15003

93 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2020 Last revised: 4 Feb 2022

Francesco Bianchi

Johns Hopkins University; NBER; CEPR

Sydney C. Ludvigson

New York University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Sai Ma

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2020

Abstract

This paper combines a data rich environment with a machine learning algorithm to provide new estimates of time-varying systematic expectational errors ("belief distortions") embedded in survey responses. We find that distortions are large even for professional forecasters, with all respondent-types over-weighting their own beliefs relative to publicly available information. Forecasts of inflation and GDP growth oscillate between optimism and pessimism by large margins, with biases in expectations evolving dynamically in response to cyclical shocks. The results suggest that artificial intelligence algorithms can be productively deployed to correct errors in human judgement and improve predictive accuracy.

Keywords: beliefs, Biases, Expectations, Machine Learning

JEL Classification: E17, E27, E32, E7, G4

Suggested Citation:

Bianchi, Francesco and Ludvigson, Sydney C. and Ma, Sai, Belief Distortions and Macroeconomic Fluctuations (July 2020). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3650118
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
73 References
K Adam , A Marcet , J Beutel
Stock price booms and expected capital gains
American Economic Review , volume 107 , issue 8 , p. 2352 - 2408 Posted: 2017
H Afrouzi , L Veldkamp
Biased In ‡ation Forecasts
2019 Meeting Papers Posted: 2019
G Amisano , J Geweke
Prediction using several macroeconomic models
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 99 , issue 5 , p. 912 - 925 Posted: 2017
G Amromin , S A Sharpe
From the horse's mouth: Economic conditions and investor expectations of risk and return
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 845 - 866 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
953
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies