Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Appendix to: The SEC’s Short-Sale Experiment: Evidence on Causal Channels and Reassessment of Indirect Effects

147 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2020 Last revised: 2 Jun 2023

Bernard S. Black

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Hemang Desai

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Kate Litvak

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Woongsun Yoo

Central Michigan University

Jeff Jiewei Yu

University of Arizona

Date Written: April 12, 2023

Abstract

This Appendix contains additional results and discussions to accompany Black, Desai, Litvak, Yoo, and Yu, The SEC’s Short-Sale Experiment: Evidence on Causal Channels and Reassessment of Indirect Effects (2023). It contains sample details; details on differences between our specification and the best-match specifications; additional results for the best-match specifications; results for step-by-step moves from our specification to each best-match specification; technical replication for FHK and HHZ; robustness assessments for the FHK and HHZ exact samples and specifications; and analysis of the additional specifications and datasets publicly posted by FHK in response to an earlier draft of the paper. We confirm technical replication for the FHK accruals result and the HHZ result for audit fees, for their exact samples and specification, but show that both results are fragile. We also respond in detail to the FHK reply to an earlier draft of this paper.

Suggested Citation:

Black, Bernard S. and Desai, Hemang and Litvak, Kate and Yoo, Woongsun and Yu, Jeff Jiewei, Internet Appendix to: The SEC’s Short-Sale Experiment: Evidence on Causal Channels and Reassessment of Indirect Effects (April 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3657200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3657200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
James F Albertus , Andrew Bird , Stephen A Karolyi , Thomas Ruchti
Short selling governance and intrafirm resource allocation Posted: 2017
Gordon J Alexander , A Mark , Peterson
The Effect of Price Tests on Trader Behavior and Market Quality: An Analysis of Regulation SHO
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 11 , p. 84 - 111 Posted: 2008
Chris Armstrong , David F Larcker , Gaizka Ormazabal , Daniel J Taylor
The Relation Between Equity Incentives and Misreporting: The Role of Risk-Taking Incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
John ( Bai , ) Jianqui , Eunju Lee , Chi Zhang
Capial Market Frictions and Human Capital Investment: Evidence from Workplace Safety Around Regulation SHO
Financial Review , volume 55 , p. 339 - 360 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,371
RANK
347,387
9 Citations
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies