Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
#Fail: Social Media, Firm Distress, and Going Concern Opinions

55 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2020 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Eric Condie

Georgia Institute of Technology

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: May 28, 2025

Abstract

Audit firms and regulators have both commented extensively on the potential for new sources of data to transform the audit process. Focusing on auditors’ going-concern opinions, we use deep learning to measure the “bearishness” of posts on social media and find it strongly predicts the likelihood of firm failure. This association is incremental to other market-based signals, such as a firm’s default likelihood or short interest. Interestingly, this signal appears largely orthogonal to an auditor’s going-concern opinion, implying that social media predicts future events that precipitate failure not fully considered by auditors. While we fail to observe a direct association between bearishness and going concern opinions, our evidence does suggest that going concern accuracy improves with bearishness. Finally, we consider potential channels for these results and find that bearishness foreshadows difficulties in raising capital, predicting the likelihood of future credit downgrades and equity issuances. Our evidence should be informative to regulators and audit firms, both of whom are currently evaluating the usefulness of “new” data to auditors.

Keywords: Stocktwits, Twitter, Social Media, Sentiment, Auditing, Going-Concern Opinions, Firm Failure

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49, G33

Suggested Citation:

Condie, Eric and Moon, James, #Fail: Social Media, Firm Distress, and Going Concern Opinions (May 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3659762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3659762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State Liability Regimes within the United States and Auditor Reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2016
E Bartov , L Faurel , P S Mohanram
Can Twitter Help Predict Firm-Level Earnings and Stock Returns?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 57 Posted: 2018
E Bartov , L Faurel , P S Mohanram
The Role of Social Media in the Corporate Bond Market
Evidence from Twitter.' Management Science , volume 69 , issue 9 , p. 5638 - 5667 Posted: 2023
E Blankespoor , G S Miller , H D White
The Role of Dissemination in Market Liquidity: Evidence from Firms' Use of Twitter TM
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 112 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,059
RANK
201,467
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies