Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pick a Number between 0 and 100: An Examination of Percentage-Based Scales

Eutsler, J and B. Lang 2020. Pick a Number between 0 and 100: An Examination of Percentage-Based Scales. Forthcoming Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research.

28 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2020

Jared Eutsler

University of North Texas

Date Written: August 2, 2020

Abstract

This study provides evidence on the relationship between scale characteristics and participant responses for percentage-based scales (i.e., 101 points) in accounting research. A 4×1 between-subjects experiment examines how common labeling designs affect various statistical properties, including means, variance, normality of the distribution, and frequency of responses. The results indicate that labels on percentage-based scales have a significant impact on the distribution of participants’ responses. Labeling only the endpoints is the lone condition that results in normally distributed data. Additional analyses suggest that labels on percentage-based scales influence participant responses in multiple ways. First, as the number of labels increases, participants may not adequately consider, and thus ultimately select, unlabeled points. Second, while participants seem to inherently interpret percentage-based scales in quartiles and deciles, labeling as such exacerbates this tendency. Finally, when more labels are present, participants seem to engage an anchoring heuristic when selecting their response. Taken as a whole, the results suggest that accounting researchers may benefit from labeling only the endpoints of percentage-based scales.

Keywords: Rating Scales; Scale Points; Percentage-Based Scales; 101-Point Scales; 100-Point Scales; Experimental Design

Suggested Citation:

Eutsler, Jared, Pick a Number between 0 and 100: An Examination of Percentage-Based Scales (August 2, 2020). Eutsler, J and B. Lang 2020. Pick a Number between 0 and 100: An Examination of Percentage-Based Scales. Forthcoming Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3665726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3665726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
E P Ahearn
The use of visual analog scales in mood disorders: A critical review
Journal of Psychiatric Research , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 569 - 579 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S K Asare , A M Wright
Inferring remediation and operational risk from material weakness disclosures
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Y Benjamini , Y Hochberg
Controlling the false discovery rate: a practical and powerful approach to multiple testing
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society , volume 57 , p. 289 - 300 Posted: 1995
Crossref
N Blaikie , J Priest
Designing social research: The logic of anticipation Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
855
RANK
588,270
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies