Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trading Volume and Dispersion of Signals

75 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2020 Last revised: 23 Aug 2021

Nikhil Vidhani

Target Corporation

Date Written: October 13, 2020

Abstract

I propose a new measure of investor disagreement based on thirty-nine factors from the return-predicting anomaly literature. Consistent with theoretical work on volume, I show that a one standard deviation change in anomaly-based disagreement is associated with a 16.7% higher turnover in the next period. The positive and significant relationship is robust to different specifications, alternative measures of turnover and disagreement, and different periods. I document that a firm's information environment moderates the effect of disagreement on volume. Disagreement effects are stronger for firms with less public information and more complex information releases. Anomaly-based disagreement also explains analyst behavior - it is positively related to their forecast dispersion and absolute forecast errors in earnings and target prices.

Keywords: Disagreement, Return Anomalies, Trading Volume

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Vidhani, Nikhil, Trading Volume and Dispersion of Signals (October 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3682088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3682088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
Panel B: 3 × 3 portfolios on N SELLt−1 and then N BU Yt−1
Load more
2 Citations
Felix Bachner
Decoding market reactions: Analysis of divergent signals of ESG ratings
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 103 , p. 104161 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Tao Chen
Belief diversity and price informativeness around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 107036 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,496
RANK
129,684
2 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies