Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alternative Evidence and Views on Asymmetric Loan Loss Provisioning

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 70, No. 2-3, 2020

33 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2020

Anne Beatty

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Scott Liao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: September 4, 2020

Abstract

Based on a linear provision/charge-off association and V-shaped scatter-plots of these variables against nonperforming loan changes, Basu et al. (2020) argue that nonperforming loan changes mis-measure credit quality and linear provision models are mis-specified. They conclude that residual asymmetry controlling for charge-offs results from loan heterogeneity and the real estate crisis. Using additions to non-accruals to measure credit quality, we find a linear association with provisions, that controlling for charge-offs induces mis-specification, and no evidence of provision asymmetry. These results highlight the importance of basing hypotheses and causal models on theoretical underpinnings rather than on plots subject to known fallacies.

Keywords: Loan Loss Provisions, Methodology

JEL Classification: M41, G20

Suggested Citation:

Beatty, Anne L. and Liao, Scott, Alternative Evidence and Views on Asymmetric Loan Loss Provisioning (September 4, 2020). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 70, No. 2-3, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3687307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3687307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Basu , J Vitanza , W Wang
Asymmetric loan loss provisioning
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2020
Crossref
A Beatty , S Liao
Do delays in expected loss recognition affect banks' willingness to lend?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Beatty , S Liao
Financial accounting in the banking industry: A review of the empirical literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 339 - 383 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,217
RANK
390,788
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies