Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measurement Scales in Accounting: A Case for Summated Scores

35 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020

BRANDON GUSTAFSON

Oakland University

Claire Latham

Washington State University

Jane Cote

Washington State University, Vancouver

Joseph Cote

Washington State University-Vancouver

Date Written: September 12, 2020

Abstract

Factor analysis is commonly used in accounting research to combine scale items. This practice is highly dubious and may be creating variable measures that do not accurately reflect the hypothesized constructs. This problem can explain why studies often get inconsistent results or lead hypothesized relationships to be non-significant. Our paper can act as an instructive guide for the reasons why factor analysis and the proceeding factor score is often inappropriate for combining scale items and makes a case for the use of summated scores. As evidence, this paper uses data from a paper using summated scores (Bailey, 2015) to explore how factor analysis and factor scores could have disrupted the integrity of the focal construct. This empirical testing exercise helps reveal the issues of an over dependence on empirical results and why summated scores can serve as an alternative to ensure confidence for researchers using well established multi-item measures.

Keywords: multi-item measurement, summated scores, factor analysis, factors scores

Suggested Citation:

GUSTAFSON, BRANDON and Latham, Claire and Cote, Jane and Cote, Joseph, Measurement Scales in Accounting: A Case for Summated Scores (September 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3691703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3691703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
S W Anderson , J W Hesford , S M Young
Factors influencing the performance of activity based costing teams: a field study of ABC model development time in the automobile industry. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 195 - 211 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R P Bagozzi , Y Yi , L W Phillips
Assessing construct validity in organizational research
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 421 - 458 Posted: 1991
Crossref
C D Bailey
Psychopathy, Academic accountants' attitudes toward unethical research practices, and publication success
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1307 - 1332 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D J Bartholomew , I J Deary , M Lawn
The origin of factor scores: Spearman, Thomson and Bartlett
British Journal of Mathematical and Statistical Psychology , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 569 - 582 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,325
RANK
324,308
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies