Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

“We Are Not the Big 4”: How Non-Big 4 Firms Assert Their Alternative Organizational Identity in the Public Accounting Field

43 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2020 Last revised: 9 Jun 2025

Laurence Daoust

HEC Montreal

Tim Fogarty

Case Western Reserve University

Candice Hux

Northern Illinois University

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 06, 2024

Abstract

Using 40 semi-structured interviews, we investigate how non-Big 4 firm partners define their firms’ identity in the public accounting field. While prior research has focused on the Big 4 segment of the field, research on the non-Big 4 segment has been relatively limited, particularly in the U.S. While non-Big 4 firms are a melting pot of homegrown professionals and transferees from other firms, we find that the most salient and defining aspect of their organizational identity is that they are “not the Big 4.” Non-Big 4 firm partners perceive their organizational identity positively, highlighting the entrepreneurial mindset, empowered leadership and autonomy, client-centered service, hands-on talent development and versatile knowledge, and flexible career paths. Yet, the continued success of these firms threatens to diminish the very characteristics upon which their current identity depends. Our findings highlight the unique attributes that differentiate this segment from the Big 4 firms in the field. 

Keywords: public accounting firms, non-Big 4 firms, organizational identity, organizational culture, melting pot, organizational governance, professional service firms, employee empowerment, client service

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M14, L2

Suggested Citation:

Daoust, Laurence and Fogarty, Tim and Hux, Candice and Zimmerman, Aleksandra,

“We Are Not the Big 4”: How Non-Big 4 Firms Assert Their Alternative Organizational Identity in the Public Accounting Field

(August 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3694012 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3694012
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
D Abrams , M A Hogg
An introduction to the social identity approach
Social identity theory: Constructive and critical advances Posted: 1990
S Aghazadeh , M Dodgson , Y Kang , M Peytcheva
Revealing Oz: Institutional work shaping auditors' national office consultations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 974 - 1008 Posted: 2021
S Albert , D Whetten
Organizational identity
Research in Organizational Behavior Posted: 1985
C T Alberti , J C Bedard , O Bik , A Vanstraelen
Audit firm culture: Recent developments and trends in the literature
European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 109 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
447
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,818
RANK
148,252
2 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies