Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Methodology for Corporate Transparency Evaluation Applied to Brazilian Companies: Legal X Voluntary Information

32 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2020

Renata Regina Galdino Sá

Federal University of Bahia (UFBA)

Antonio F. A. Silva Jr.

Federal University of Bahia - UFBA

Olímpio Gomes

Federal University of Bahia (UFBA)

Date Written: October 1, 2020

Abstract

This paper presents a methodology for measuring the level of transparency based on information available in corporate investor relations websites. The methodology has four steps: the first step consists of identifying a list of 99 items corresponding to information elements that companies are expected to disclose through their investor relations websites. The second step checks the existence and quality of each of these information elements in the websites. The quality is measured considering the aspects of easy access, updating and completeness of the information. The third step comprises the attribution of weights to the information items considering the nature of the requirement of the information (whether it is legal, regulatory, good market practice or academic recommendation) and its relevance to decision-making of shareholders and investors. Professionals with a broad market vision perform this third step. The transparency index is calculated in the fourth step. The methodology is applied to a sample of Brazilian companies. The paper contributes presenting a methodology to assist the discussion about the importance of transparency and its connection with the increase of value for shareholders and for society. The methodology allows us to verify that transparency is dependent on the level of legal enforcement and that some companies have more voluntary transparency than others.

Keywords: transparency

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Galdino Sá, Renata Regina and Silva Jr., Antonio F. A. and Gomes, Olímpio, A Methodology for Corporate Transparency Evaluation Applied to Brazilian Companies: Legal X Voluntary Information (October 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3703208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3703208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
RANK
697,608
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies