Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Management Accounting Practices Using Textual Analysis

Qiu, F., Hu, N., Liang, P., & Dow, K. (2023). Measuring management accounting practices using textual analysis. Management Accounting Research, 58, 100818.

16 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 4 Jan 2025

Fangjuan Qiu

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Nan Hu

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Peng Liang

School of Management, University of Science and Technology of China

Kevin Dow

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2023

Abstract

Management accounting is an important component of managerial decision-making to help guide the overall business strategy in organisations. Appropriate measures of management accounting practices (MAPs) allow academics and practitioners to assess the organisations’ MAPs adoption effectively. In this study, based on qualitative information disclosed in annual reports from 2003 to 2019, we construct and validate novel and comprehensive measures of firm-level MAPs using the word embedding model Word2Vec. We illustrate the predictive validity of our measures by examining the determinants and value creation function of fitted MAPs. Our novel measures of MAPs not only provide a solid foundation for large scale sample empirical analyses of management accounting research but also pave a new way to investigate MAPs as a package.

Keywords: Management Accounting Practices, Contingency Theory, Corporate Lifecycle Stages, Word Embedding Model, Value Creation

JEL Classification: M41;G14

Suggested Citation:

Qiu, Fangjuan and Hu, Nan and Hu, Nan and Liang, Peng and Dow, Kevin, Measuring Management Accounting Practices Using Textual Analysis (March 1, 2023). Qiu, F., Hu, N., Liang, P., & Dow, K. (2023). Measuring management accounting practices using textual analysis. Management Accounting Research, 58, 100818., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3710331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3710331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
T Albright , M Lam
Managerial accounting and continuous improvement initiatives: a retrospective and framework
J. Manag. Issues , volume 18 , p. 157 - 174 Posted: 2006
A Almazan , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active institutional shareholders and costs of monitoring: evidence from executive compensation
Financ. Manag , volume 34 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2005
M Arnold , M Artz
The use of a single budget or separate budgets for planning and performance evaluation
Account. Organ. Soc , volume 73 , p. 50 - 67 Posted: 2019
C Ax , J Greve
Adoption of management accounting innovations: organizational culture compatibility and perceived outcomes
Manag. Account. Res , volume 34 , p. 59 - 74 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
680
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,115
RANK
87,812
3 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies