Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Disaggregation and Market Efficiency

52 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020

Miaodi Han

University of Queensland - Business School

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Gary S. Monroe

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - Australian School of Business

Date Written: October 14, 2020

Abstract

Using the earnings disaggregation model in Jackson, Plumlee and Rountree (2018), we investigate investors’ incorporation of the market, industry and firm-idiosyncratic components of earnings in their stock pricing decisions. We find results consistent with Jackson et al. (2018), showing the firm-idiosyncratic component of earnings is less persistent than the other two earnings components. However, we find that investors fail to correctly react to the actual persistence of the market and firm-idiosyncratic components of earnings as reflected in their stock pricing behavior. Investors are found to underweight the market and firm-idiosyncratic components of earnings but do not incorrectly weight the industry component of earnings. Correspondingly, we find that significant positive abnormal returns can be earned by taking a long (short) position in firms with higher (lower) levels of firm-idiosyncratic earnings consistent with the firm-idiosyncratic earnings component containing higher information uncertainty.

Keywords: Macroeconomy, Market, Industry, Profitability, Efficiency, Pricing

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Han, Miaodi and Jackson, Andrew B. and Monroe, Gary S., Earnings Disaggregation and Market Efficiency (October 14, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3711802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3711802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Shane Dikolli , Andrew B. Jackson , Marlene A. Plumlee
The Disaggregation of, and Asymmetry in, CEO Pay-for-Luck
37 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 168
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
RANK
337,747
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies