Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Comparability in US Firms Issuing Debt in the US Primary Market

Posted: 12 Feb 2021 Last revised: 10 Jun 2021

Paula Hill

University of Bristol

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Shuo Wang

University of Edinburgh - Accounting and Finance Group; University of Bristol - School of Economics, Finance and Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 16, 2020

Abstract

We propose a novel method of measuring the comparability of reported accounting numbers from the perspective of creditors. We demonstrate the validity of the measure and show that new bond issues of firms with superior comparability have better credit ratings and reduced bond yields, ceteris paribus. This is commensurate with comparability reducing the information uncertainty surrounding credit risk assessments derived from a firm’s financial information. Comparison of the impact of comparability on public and private bond issues suggests that the impact of comparability is greater in the public market, which we suggest is due to the presence of uninformed investors and higher reputation costs for the rating agencies.

Keywords: Comparability, creditors, credit ratings, bond yields, bond markets

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hill, Paula and Lobo, Gerald J. and Wang, Shuo, Financial Reporting Comparability in US Firms Issuing Debt in the US Primary Market (October 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3713075 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3713075
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies