Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond the Lines: Uncovering Private Information from Fund Managers' Disclosures

49 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Sean Cao

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Baozhong Yang

Georgia State University - J. Mack Robinson College of Business

Alan L. Zhang

Iowa State University - College of Business

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

We identify private information from mutual fund managers' narratives in their letters to shareholders with the help of large language models (LLM). Informed funds identified by LLM deliver superior abnormal returns and are more likely to receive an upgrade in Morningstar ratings. When interpreting the textual features associated with private information in fund disclosure, we find that informed funds present more forward-looking discussions and issue more modest and cautious statements. In most cases, investors recognize such qualitative disclosure and reward funds that disclose private information with greater flows, but only if those investors actively acquire the disclosure. Furthermore, we show that managers' narrative disclosures shed particular light on their skill when funds' quantitative information is hard to evaluate, suggesting the importance of qualitative disclosures.

Keywords: JEL Classification: C45, G11, G14, G23 Machine Learning, Large Language Models, Mutual Fund Performance, Disclosure, Textual Analysis, Shareholder Letters, Fund Flows

JEL Classification: C45, G11, G14, G23

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Sean S. and Yang, Baozhong and Zhang, Alan L., Beyond the Lines: Uncovering Private Information from Fund Managers' Disclosures (July 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3713966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3713966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Simona Abis
Man vs. machine: Quantitative and discretionary equity management Posted: 2022
Simona Abis , Andrea M Buffa
Learning from prospectuses
Apoorva Javadekar, and Anton Lines Posted: 2022
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Vikas Agarwal , Lei Jiang , Quan Wen
Why Do Mutual Funds Hold Lottery Stocks?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis forthcoming Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,332
RANK
34,167
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies