Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosing to Informed Traders

77 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021 Last revised: 19 Sep 2022

Snehal Banerjee

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Finance

Ivan Marinovic

Graduate School of Business, Stanford University

Kevin Smith

Stanford University Graduate School of Business

Date Written: September 01, 2022

Abstract

We develop a model in which a firm's manager can voluntarily disclose to privately-informed investors. We show that, in equilibrium, the manager only discloses sufficiently favorable news. If the manager is known to be informed but disclosure is costly, the probability of disclosure increases with market liquidity and the stock trades at a discount relative to expected cash flows. However, when investors are uncertain about whether the manager is informed, disclosure can decrease with market liquidity, and the stock can trade at a premium relative to expected cash flows. Moreover, contrary to common intuition, ex-ante public information can crowd in more voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Trading, Price Efficiency, Private Information

JEL Classification: D72, D82, D83, G20

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Snehal and Marinovic, Ivan and Smith, Kevin, Disclosing to Informed Traders (September 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3723747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3723747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
The American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
E Albagli , C Hellwig , A Tsyvinski
Imperfect financial markets and shareholder incentives in partial and general equilibrium Posted: 2020
E Albagli , C Hellwig , A Tsyvinski
Dispersed information and asset prices Posted: 2021
A Almazan , S Banerji , A D Motta
Attracting attention: Cheap managerial talk and costly market monitoring
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 1399 - 1436 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
757
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,916
RANK
76,484
9 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies