Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Performance Incentives — The Monitoring Effect of Analysts’ Coverage

31 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2021

Erasmus Attah-Gyamfi

JP Morgan Chase

Date Written: June 18, 2020

Abstract

I examine the effect of analysts’ coverage on managerial behavior to manage earnings to meet or beat analysts’ estimates. I manipulate analysts’ coverage (high versus low) and performance incentives (present versus absent) to investigate their effect on managers’ choices in a revenue recognition scenario. The findings show that when performance incentives are present, managers are likely to manage earnings to meet or beat targets regardless of the level of analysts’ coverage. However, I find that incentivized managers are sensitive to the level of analysts’ coverage, which improves the quality of the information environment and disciplines managerial behavior. This suggests that analysts’ coverage can serve as a useful monitor of managers’ reporting choices. The findings extend accounting literature by using a controlled experiment to examine earnings management, allowing for more reliable causal connections to be inferred between it and the manipulations. The results are potentially useful to regulators and standard setters as they evaluate alternative devices to curtail managerial opportunism in external reporting.

Keywords: earnings management, revenue recognition, analysts’ coverage, equity incentives, monitoring

Suggested Citation:

ATTAH-GYAMFI, ERASMUS, Earnings Management and Performance Incentives — The Monitoring Effect of Analysts’ Coverage (June 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3724612 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3724612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K M Rennekamp
Disclosure readability and the sensitivity of investors' valuation judgments to outside information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
Crossref
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The Rewards to Meeting or Beating Earnings Expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C F Camerer , R M Hogarth
The Effects of Financial Incentives in Experiments: A Review and Capital-Labor-Production Framework
Journal of Risk and Uncertainty , volume 19 , p. 7 - 42 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
631
RANK
631,426
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies