Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Standard Error Biases When Using Generated Regressors in Accounting Research

71 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2020 Last revised: 16 Dec 2022

Wei Chen

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Sam Melessa

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 15, 2022

Abstract

We analyze the standard error bias associated with the use of generated regressors—independent variables generated from first-step regressions—in accounting research settings. Under general conditions, generated regressors do not affect the consistency of coefficient estimates. However, commonly used generated regressors can cause standard errors to be understated. Problematic generated regressors include predicted values, coefficient estimates, and measures derived from these estimates. Widely used generated regressors in accounting include measures of earnings persistence, normal accruals, litigation risk, and conditional conservatism. Using simple regression models and simulation, we demonstrate how generated regressors can produce understated standard errors in accounting research settings. We also demonstrate how the magnitude of the standard error bias is inversely related to the precision of the generated regressor. Finally, we discuss bootstrapping as a correction for the bias and demonstrate the pairs cluster bootstrap as a tool to improve inferences in common accounting settings involving generated regressors.

Keywords: generated regressor, standard error bias, bootstrapping, predicted values, financial reporting quality, earnings forecasts, investment, litigation risk

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C18, G10, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wei and Hribar, Paul and Melessa, Sam, Standard Error Biases When Using Generated Regressors in Accounting Research (December 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3724730 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3724730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
B W Ambrose , J Conklin , J Yoshida
Credit Rationing, Income Exaggeration, and Adverse Selection in the Mortgage Market
The Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 6 , p. 2637 - 2685 Posted: 2016
Q Ashraf , O Galor
The 'out of Africa' hypothesis, human genetic diversity, and comparative economic development
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 46 Posted: 2013
G S Bae , S U Choi , D S Dhaliwal , P T Lamoreaux
Auditors and Client Investment Efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2017
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in U.S. and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,070
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,405
RANK
47,565
35 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies