Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts’ Estimates of the Cost of Equity Capital

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2021

Karthik Balakrishnan

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Lakshmanan Shivakumar

London Business School

Peeyush Taori

London Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 30, 2020

Abstract

We explore a large sample of analysts’ estimates of the cost of equity capital (CoE) to evaluate their usefulness as expected return proxies (ERP). We find that the CoE estimates are significantly related to a firm’s beta, size, book-to-market ratio, leverage, and idiosyncratic volatility but not other risk proxies. Even after controlling for the popular return predictors, the CoE estimates incrementally predict future stock returns. This predictive ability is better explained as the CoE estimates containing ERP information rather than reflecting stock mispricing. When evaluated against traditional ERPs, including the implied costs of capital, the CoE estimates are found to be the least noisy. Finally, we document CoE responses around earnings announcements, demonstrating their usefulness to study discount-rate reactions of market participants. We conclude that analysts’ CoE estimates are meaningful ERPs that can be fruitfully employed in a variety of asset pricing contexts.

Keywords: analysts, cost of equity, expected stock returns, implied cost of equity capital

JEL Classification: G14, G24, G29, G32

Suggested Citation:

Balakrishnan, Karthik and Shivakumar, Lakshmanan and Taori, Peeyush, Analysts’ Estimates of the Cost of Equity Capital (October 30, 2020). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3724862 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3724862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
9 Citations
Atif Ellahie , Rachel M. Hayes , Marlene A. Plumlee
Growth Matters: Disclosure and Risk Premium
The Accounting Review, 2022, 97 (4), 259–286, · 51 Pages · Posted: 2 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 12 Oct 2022 · Downloads: 540
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Petri Jylha , Michael Ungeheuer
Growth Expectations out of WACC
81 Pages · Posted: 29 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 24 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 699
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeremiah Green , John R. M. Hand , Anywhere Sikochi
The asymmetric mispricing information in analysts’ target prices
Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming. · 41 Pages · Posted: 14 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 26 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 245
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stephannie A. Larocque , Yong Yu , Wuyang Zhao
Analysts’ EPS-decreasing exclusions and target price forecasts
Accepted at <i>Management Science.</i> · 53 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 30 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 278
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
47,241
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies