Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measurement Error, Fixed Effects, and False Positives in Accounting Research

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2021 Last revised: 29 Jan 2023

Jared N. Jennings

Washington University in St. Louis

Jung Min Kim

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Joshua A. Lee

Brigham Young University

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: November 1, 2020

Abstract

We show theoretically and empirically that measurement error can bias in favor of falsely rejecting a true null hypothesis (i.e., a “false positive”) and that regression models with high-dimensional fixed effects can exacerbate measurement error bias and increase the likelihood of false positives. We replicate inferences from prior work in a setting where we can directly observe the amount of measurement error and show that the combination of measurement error and fixed effects materially inflates coefficients and distorts inferences. We provide researchers with a simple diagnostic tool to assess the possibility that the combination of measurement error and fixed effects might give rise to a false positive, and encourage researchers to triangulate inferences across multiple empirical proxies and multiple fixed effect structures.

Keywords: measurement error, fixed effects, causal models, accounting research

JEL Classification: C18, G17

Suggested Citation:

Jennings, Jared N. and Kim, Jung Min and Lee, Joshua A. and Taylor, Daniel, Measurement Error, Fixed Effects, and False Positives in Accounting Research (November 1, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3731197 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3731197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
143 References
J D Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D Aobdia
Employee mobility, noncompete agreements, product-market competition, and company disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 296 - 346 Posted: 2018
M Arellano , J Hahn
Understanding bias in nonlinear panel models: some recent developments , volume 43 Posted: 2007
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Huang , D J Taylor
The economics of managerial taxes and corporate risk-taking
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,445
RANK
17,111
32 Citations
143 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies