Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Turnover among Other Top Executives and Local Market Characteristics on Financial Reporting Risk in the Presence of CEO and CFO Continuity

52 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2021 Last revised: 10 Jul 2022

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Michelle Harding

Virginia Tech

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

J. Mike Truelson

Mississippi State University

Date Written: July 2022

Abstract

Prior research suggests that turnover among key executives such as the CEO or CFO can influence stakeholder perceptions of financial reporting risk. In this study, we explore whether greater turnover among the members of a firms’ top executive group other than those with direct financial reporting oversight responsibilities (i.e., the CEO and CFO) influences key stakeholders’ concerns about financial reporting risk or whether consistency in the CEO and CFO positions is sufficient to alleviate any such concerns. Consistent with predictions based on upper echelon theory (UET), we find that greater turnover among executives other than the CEO and CFO increases perceptions of financial reporting risk. We further find that these perceptions vary based on local market characteristics that affect a firm’s ability to replace executive talent. Further analyses suggest that the perceptions of financial reporting risk in response to turnover among other top executives offsets deterioration in financial reporting quality.

Keywords: Turnover, financial reporting risk, audit fees, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: G30, M12, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bills, Kenneth L. and Harding, Michelle and Seidel, Timothy A. and Truelson, Jonathan, The Influence of Turnover among Other Top Executives and Local Market Characteristics on Financial Reporting Risk in the Presence of CEO and CFO Continuity (July 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3733649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3733649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee , J K , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
A S Alexiev , J J P Jansen , F , J Vanden , H W Bosch , Volberda
Top management team advice seeking and exploratory innovation: The moderating role of TMT heterogeneity
Journal of Management Studies , volume 47 , issue 7 , p. 1343 - 1364 Posted: 2010
J L Andrus , M C Withers , S H Courtright , S Boivie
Go your own way: Exploring the causes of top executive turnover
Strategic Management Journal , volume 40 , p. 1151 - 1168 Posted: 2019
R L Autrey , T D Bauer , K E Jackson , E Klevsky
Deploying "connectors": A control to manage employee turnover intentions? Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 79 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,590
RANK
178,157
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies