Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Our Research Relevant

5 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2021

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The focus of management schools should be on learning and teaching, with research as a useful byproduct. Focus on churning out publications intended largely to earn rewards or rents do not serve society well. Given the difficulty of assessing the value of research contributions to social science disciplines within the life time of the author, focus on rewards to publications imposes large dead-weight burden on society. Such "research" has now become the focus of management education, instead of education and learning being the focus of research, to the detriment of management students, faculty, corporations, and society. It is time to rethink.

Keywords: Research, Education, Relevance

JEL Classification: M1, M4, M10

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Making Our Research Relevant (2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3736980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
614
RANK
772,295
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies