Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Asymmetric Timeliness in Earnings: Insights from Earnings Decomposition

42 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2021 Last revised: 24 Jun 2025

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Yaowen Shan

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: June 24, 2025

Abstract

Following Watts (2003), we predict and find that evidence of asymmetric timeliness (AT) in earnings (i.e., conditional conservatism) is primarily confined to earnings components that are relatively harder to verify. Using the approach suggested by Basu (1997), we find that evidence consistent with AT is almost exclusively found in the idiosyncratic component of earnings, with little, if any, evidence of AT for industry and market-wide earnings components. We further show that this result is robust to controlling for several identified forms of bias (Badia et al. 2021) and possible asset curtailments (Lawrence et al. 2018), as well as the use of a simple placebo. Finally, we show that our conclusions are robust to the alternative method suggested by Basu for identifying AT (i.e., consecutive earnings changes). Our results indicate that researchers documenting the extent of AT should exclude earnings components where AT is less likely to be found. At a minimum, the use of “bottom-line” earnings adds significant noise to identifying the extent of AT and increases the likelihood of alternative explanations for observed AT. 

Keywords: Capital markets, Conservatism, Asymmetric Timeliness, Earnings Decomposition

JEL Classification: D82, G14, M41, N20

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Andrew B. and Shan, Yaowen and Taylor, Stephen L.,

Asymmetric Timeliness in Earnings: Insights from Earnings Decomposition

(June 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3736277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Basic concepts and accounting principles underlying financial statements of business enterprises Posted: 1970
M M Badia , F Duro , S G Penalva , Ryan
Debiasing the measurement of conditional conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1221 - 1259 Posted: 2021
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 182 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,229
RANK
368,155
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies