Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Litigation Risk via Machine Learning

45 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2020

Gene Moo Lee

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

James P. Naughton

University of Virginia, Darden School of Business

Xin Zheng

University of British Columbia, Sauder School of Business, Students

Dexin Zhou

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

We demonstrate the value of machine learning in accounting through a detailed examination of litigation risk, an important and frequently used estimate in the literature. We evaluate a comprehensive set of twelve machine learning techniques and benchmark their performance against the logistic regression models in Kim and Skinner (2012). These models improve the prediction of litigation risk, with hourglass-shaped and convolutional neural networks the most effective. The improvements are substantial, and are driven by increased precision, the most salient attribute of litigation estimates in the accounting literature. We also produce firm-year litigation risk estimates for use in future research from a convolutional neural network model that uses recursive feature elimination on a pool of 68 possible parameters. Overall, our results suggest that the joint consideration of economically-meaningful predictors and machine learning techniques maximize the effectiveness of accounting estimates.

Keywords: Machine Learning, Securities Class Action Lawsuits, Neural Network

JEL Classification: G15, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Gene Moo and Naughton, James P. and Zheng, Xin and Zhou, Dexin, Predicting Litigation Risk via Machine Learning (December 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3740954 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3740954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Jake Krupa , Miguel Minutti-Meza
Regression and Machine Learning Methods to Predict Discrete Outcomes in Accounting Research
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 131 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,738
RANK
40,209
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies