Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Future Earnings Changes Using Machine Learning and Detailed Financial Data

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

91 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2021 Last revised: 14 Feb 2022

Xi Chen

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Tony (Yang Ha) Cho

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting; New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Yiwei Dou

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Baruch Lev

New York University - Stern School of Business

Date Written: February 12, 2022

Abstract

We use machine learning methods and high-dimensional detailed financial data to predict the direction of one-year-ahead earnings changes. Our models show significant out-of-sample predictive power: the area under the Receiver Operating Characteristics curve (AUC) ranges from 67.52 to 68.66 percent, significantly higher than the 50 percent of a random guess. The annual size-adjusted returns to hedge portfolios formed based on the prediction of our models range from 5.02 to 9.74 percent. Our models outperform two conventional models that use logistic regressions and small sets of accounting variables, and professional analysts’ forecasts. Analyses suggest that the outperformance relative to the conventional models stems from both nonlinear predictor interactions missed by regressions and the use of more detailed financial data by machine learning.

Keywords: Direction of Earnings Changes; Prediction; Detailed Financial Data; XBRL; Machine Learning

JEL Classification: C53; G12; G17; M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xi and Cho, Yang Ha and Dou, Yiwei and Lev, Baruch Itamar, Predicting Future Earnings Changes Using Machine Learning and Detailed Financial Data (February 12, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3741015 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3741015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
V Anand , R Brunner , K Ikegwu , T Sougiannis
Predicting Profitability Using Machine Learning Posted: 2019
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting Accounting Fraud in Publicly Traded US Firms Using a Machine Learning Approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
M Barth , K Li , C Mcclure
Evolution in Value Relevance of Accounting Information Posted: 2021
J Bartley , A Chen , And E Taylor
A Comparison of XBRL Filings to Corporate 10-Ks-Evidence from the Voluntary Filing Program
Accounting Horizon , volume 25 , p. 227 - 245 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,692
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,917
RANK
11,499
40 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies