Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Longitudinal Study Typologies for Business Research

International Journal of Business and Globalisation, 24(2), 212-239 (2018)

44 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2021

Stefan Linnhoff

Murray State University - College of Business

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Longitudinal studies have become a standard methodology for academic research that examines issues in the ever-changing, complex global world of business. In business research, longitudinal studies are particularly effective for measuring how business policies and strategies affect the performance of a business firm over time. The literature’s call for more longitudinal studies runs up against a rather incoherent and potentially confusing use of terminology and typology undermining the accessibility for business academics and practitioners who are not familiar with this area. This study provides a thorough review of longitudinal study typologies, including an annotated, illustrated methodological framework integrating the key facets of observational longitudinal studies. Although the framework is generalisable beyond the behavioural or business context, it refrains from dealing with the specific nuances of areas such as medicine. This review and framework should be beneficial to academics and other researchers in properly describing, setting up, and understanding longitudinal studies.

Keywords: longitudinal studies; observational longitudinal designs; cohort studies

Suggested Citation:

Linnhoff, Stefan and Smith, Katherine Taken and Smith, Murphy, An Examination of Longitudinal Study Typologies for Business Research (2018). International Journal of Business and Globalisation, 24(2), 212-239 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3743048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
273 References
C Aldwin , D Gilmer
Understanding Change in Aging Research, In Health, Illness, and Optimal Aging Posted: 2013
A Aschengrau , G Seage
Essentials of Epidemiology in Public Health
Jones & Bartlett Learning Posted: 2008
P Ashcroft , L M Smith
Impact of Environmental Regulation on Financial Reporting of Pollution Activity: A Comparative Study of U.S. and Canadian Firms
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 153 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Babbie
The Basics of Social Research Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,656
RANK
357,435
273 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies