Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does External Information Influence Managers’ Accrual Estimates? Evidence from the Impact of Stock Liquidity on Accrual Estimation Errors

56 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2021 Last revised: 30 Aug 2023

Jing Fang

University of Central Arkansas

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Fellipe G. Raymundo

University of Arkansas, Sam M. Walton College of Business, William Dillard Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 2023

Abstract

Because prior research suggests that the quality of external information available to managers is higher for firms with higher stock liquidity, we posit that managers of these firms will form more accurate accrual estimates. Consistent with this, we find that firms with higher stock liquidity exhibit smaller accrual estimation errors. Results from a difference-in-differences analysis using an exogenous shock to stock liquidity from the 2001 decimalization support causality. We also find that the effect of stock liquidity is stronger when external information is more useful to managers for forming their accrual estimates, and that our findings are not driven by a relation between stock liquidity and managers’ use of accruals to manage earnings. Collectively, our findings support the notion that stock liquidity increases the quality of external information available to managers, which helps them to form more accurate accrual estimates.

Keywords: decimalization, stock liquidity, external information, accrual estimation errors, accruals quality

JEL Classification: G140, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Jing and Myers, Linda A. and Gomes Raymundo, Fellipe, Does External Information Influence Managers’ Accrual Estimates? Evidence from the Impact of Stock Liquidity on Accrual Estimation Errors (August 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3744078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3744078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
F Abdi , A Ranaldo
A simple estimation of bid-ask spreads from daily close, high, and low prices. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 4437 - 4480 Posted: 2017
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
A S Ahmed , Y Li , N Xu
Tick size and financial reporting quality in small-cap firms: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 914 Posted: 2020
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
895
RANK
495,993
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies