Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bolstering the Modelling and Forecasting of Realized Covariance Matrices using (Directional) Common Jumps

39 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2021 Last revised: 8 Jul 2021

Rodrigo Hizmeri

University of Liverpool - Management School (ULMS)

Marwan Izzeldin

Lancaster University Management School

Ingmar Nolte

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 03, 2021

Abstract

This paper proposes a robust framework for disentangling undiversifiable common jumps within the realized covariance matrix. Simultaneous jumps detected in our empirical study are strongly related to major financial and economic news, and their occurrence raises correlation and persistence among assets. Our application to 20 Dow Jones stocks, shows that common jumps and directional common jumps substantially improve the in- and out-of-sample forecasts of the realized covariances at the day-, week- and month-horizon. Applying these new specifications to minimum variance portfolios results in superior positions from reduced turnover. The implication is that investors willingly sacrifice up to 100 annual basis points in switching to those strategies.

Keywords: Common Jumps, Directional Common Jumps, Realized Covariances, Forecasting, Asset Allocation, Portfolio Construction

JEL Classification: C14; C32, C58, G11, G32

Suggested Citation:

Hizmeri, Rodrigo and Izzeldin, Marwan and Nolte, Ingmar, Bolstering the Modelling and Forecasting of Realized Covariance Matrices using (Directional) Common Jumps (July 03, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3745671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3745671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Y Aït-Sahalia , J Jacod
High-frequency nancial econometrics Posted: 2014
Y Aït-Sahalia , I Kalnina , D Xiu
High-frequency factor models and regressions
Journal of Econometrics , volume 216 , issue 1 Posted: 2020
Y Aït-Sahalia , D Xiu
Increased correlation among asset classes: Are volatility or jumps to blame, or both
Journal of Econometrics , volume 194 , issue 2 Posted: 2016
Y Aït-Sahalia , D Xiu
A hausman test for the presence of market microstructure noise in high frequency data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 211 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,851
RANK
405,251
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies