Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating Profitability Decomposition Frameworks via Machine Learning: Implications for Earnings Forecasting and Financial Statement Analysis

Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting & Economics

57 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2021 Last revised: 10 Sep 2025

Oliver Binz

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Katherine Schipper

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Kevin Standridge

University of Utah - School of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: January 20, 2022

Abstract

We find that nonlinear estimation of profitability decomposition frameworks yields more accurate out-of-sample profitability forecasts than forecasts from both a random walk and linear estimation. The improvements derive from nonlinear estimation and synergies between nonlinear estimation and profitability decomposition frameworks. We analyze three essential financial statement analysis design choices to provide insights for the teaching and practice of fundamental analysis and find robust evidence that higher levels of profitability decomposition, focusing on core items, and using up to three years of historical information improve forecast accuracy. We find that our forecasts predict returns and profitability changes before and after controlling for analyst forecasts and common asset pricing factors.

Keywords: Machine Learning, Earnings Forecasting, Structural Framework, Fundamental Analysis, Ratio Decomposition

JEL Classification: C53, G10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Binz, Oliver and Schipper, Katherine and Standridge, Kevin, Estimating Profitability Decomposition Frameworks via Machine Learning: Implications for Earnings Forecasting and Financial Statement Analysis (January 20, 2022). Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting & Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3745078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3745078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
V Anand , R Brunner , K Ikegwu , T Sougiannis
Predicting Profitability Using Machine Learning Posted: 2020
R Ball , P Brown
Some Preliminary Findings on the Association between the Earnings of a Firm, Its Industry, and the Economy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 1967
R Ball , G Sadka , R Sadka
Aggregate Earnings and Asset Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1097 - 1133 Posted: 2009
A Barnea , J Ronen , S Sadan
Classificatory Smoothing of Income with Extraordinary Items
The Accounting Review , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 110 - 122 Posted: 1976
Load more
4 Citations
Stewart Jones , William J. Moser , Matthew M. Wieland
Machine learning and the prediction of changes in profitability
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 2643 Posted: 2023
Crossref
XI CHEN , YANG HA (TONY) CHO , YIWEI DOU , BARUCH LEV
Predicting Future Earnings Changes Using Machine Learning and Detailed Financial Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 467 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Suddhasanta De , Avik Das , Tamoghna Mukherjee , Manisha Dey , Keya Das Ghosh
Measuring Pricing Efficiency of Bank Equity by the Convergence of Fundamentals and Price-based ROE Predictions Applying Gradient Boosting
, p. 647 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Jake Krupa , Miguel Minutti-Meza
Regression and Machine Learning Methods to Predict Discrete Outcomes in Accounting Research
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 131 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,767
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,200
RANK
22,587
4 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies