Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Neuroaccounting Taking a Place on the Stage? A Review of the Influence of Neuroscience on Accounting Research

European Accounting Review

76 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Ann Tank

University of Groningen, Department of Accounting

Anne M. Farrell

Miami University Farmer School of Business - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 14, 2020

Abstract

Insights and technologies from neuroscience research can help accounting scholars more deeply understand how decision-makers physically and cognitively process and react to accounting information and controls. We conduct a systematic review of accounting literature to evaluate whether and how accounting scholars are incorporating neuroscience research into their work and building a field of ‘neuroaccounting.’ To do so, we identify literature that relates accounting research questions to neuroscience research, addresses accounting questions or tasks but has implications for neuroscience or neuroaccounting research, or investigates accounting questions using neuroscience technologies. We then classify that literature into two broad topic areas analogous to the decision-facilitating (how individuals process information) and decision-influencing (how individuals respond to controls) roles of accounting, and map relationships within each topic over time. We observe that literature in accounting is coalescing into a new field, neuroaccounting, in ways that mirror the pattern of development of a similar field, neu-roeconomics – indicating that neuroaccounting is indeed taking a place on the stage of behav-ioral accounting research. Our review provides a framework for future research at the nexus of neuroscience and accounting that provides unique insights into the ‘black box’ of cognitive pro-cessing in accounting contexts.

Keywords: Neuroscience, neuroaccounting, neuroeconomics, literature review, reporting, control

JEL Classification: C99, D87, D91, M41

Suggested Citation:

Tank, Ann and Farrell, Anne M., Is Neuroaccounting Taking a Place on the Stage? A Review of the Influence of Neuroscience on Accounting Research (December 14, 2020). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3748649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
L F Ackert , B K Church , P Zhang
Informed traders' performance and the information environment: Evidence from experimental asset markets. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 70 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2018-10
Crossref
R Adolphs
Cognitive neuroscience of human social behaviour
Nature Reviews Neuroscience , volume 4 , p. 165 - 178 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H C Alewine , T C Miller
How balanced scorecard format and reputation related to environmental objectives influence performance evaluations
Advances in Management Accounting , volume 27 , p. 123 - 165 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S H Asay
Horizon-induced optimism as a gateway to earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 30 Posted: 2018
Load more
4 Citations
Paul Black , C. Brock Kirwan , Thomas Meservy , William B. Tayler , Jeffrey Williams
An fMRI Investigation of the Neurocognitive Processing of Measures and Strategic Objectives
49 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 12 Dec 2022 · Downloads: 213
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yasheng Chen , Adam Presslee , Sue Yang
The Effect of Functional Diversity on Team Creativity: Behavioral and fNIRS Evidence
Management Science, 0[<a href="https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2023.02157" rel="nofollow">10.1287/mnsc.2023.02157</a>], Accepted by Management Science · 58 Pages · Posted: 3 Aug 2022 · Last revised: 1 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 371
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gillian McAllister , Nicole Sutton , David Andrew Brown , Olivia Rawlings-Way , Deborah Parker , Rachael Lewis , Jiali Yin , Bronwen Harrison
Using Public Inquiries as a Data Source for Accounting Research: A Systematic Review
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 84 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 145
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alessandro Ghio , Zeila Occhipinti , Roberto Verona
The Consideration of Diversity in the Accounting Literature: a Systematic Literature Review
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, ESCP Business School Research Paper · 44 Pages · Posted: 11 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 426
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,076
RANK
394,837
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies