Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Earnings Expectations Game and the Dispersion Anomaly

Management Science, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2021

David Veenman

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School (ABS)

Patrick Verwijmeren

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)

Date Written: December 2020

Abstract

This study examines the role of differences in firms' propensity to meet earnings expectations in explaining why firms with high analyst forecast dispersion experience relatively low future stock returns. We first demonstrate that the negative relation between dispersion and returns is concentrated around earnings announcements. Next, we show that this relation disappears when we control for ex-ante measures of firms' propensity to meet earnings expectations and that the component of dispersion explained by these measures drives the return predictability of dispersion. We further demonstrate that firms with low analyst dispersion are substantially more likely to achieve positive earnings surprises, and provide new evidence consistent with both expectations management and strategic forecast pessimism explaining this result. Overall, we conclude that investor mispricing of firms' participation in the earnings expectations game provides a viable explanation for the dispersion anomaly.

Keywords: earnings announcements, sell-side analysts, forecast bias, expectations management, mispricing, forecast dispersion, earnings surprises

JEL Classification: D80, G12, G14, G24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Veenman, David and Verwijmeren, Patrick, The Earnings Expectations Game and the Dispersion Anomaly (December 2020). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3754858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3754858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
J Abarbanell , H Park
Do Bright-Line Earnings Surprises Really Affect Stock Price Reactions?
Management Science , volume 63 , p. 1063 - 1084 Posted: 2017
Crossref
D Avramov , T Chordia , G Jostova , A Philipov
Dispersion in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts and Credit Rating
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , p. 83 - 101 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari
Security Returns around Earnings Announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 718 - 738 Posted: 1991
B M Barber , E T De George , R Lehavy , B Trueman
The Earnings Announcement Premium Around the Globe
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 118 - 138 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,902
RANK
143,403
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies