Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do We Know About Meta-Analyses in Accounting, Auditing, and Corporate Governance?

Posted: 27 Feb 2021

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: December 26, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to summarize the key findings of meta-analyses in accounting, auditing, and corporate governance research.

Design/methodology/approach: A structured literature review on 63 meta-analyses related to (1) financial accounting, (2) management accounting, (3) auditing, and (4) corporate governance is conducted.

Findings: Most of the previous meta-analyses have been focused on the topic of corporate governance with a clear focus on board composition as an independent variable and by integrating research- and country-specific moderating variables. Meta-analyses in management accounting are rare; furthermore, no meta-analysis in tax accounting has been published yet.

Originality/value: Meta-analyses on these topics are expected to become increasingly important in the following years because of the increased number of empirical quantitative research. Our literature review gives useful insights for research, practice, and regulation.


Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick, What Do We Know About Meta-Analyses in Accounting, Auditing, and Corporate Governance? (December 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755466
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies