Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Balanced Scorecard: Measures that Drive Performance Evaluation in Auditing Firms. Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, October 2020, 1-26.

26 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Mohamed A. Hegazy

Department of Accounting, The American University in Cairo

Date Written: October 30, 2020

Abstract

Abstract
The purpose of this article is to establish a framework with its related measures for then development of a balanced scorecard (BSC ) for auditing firms. A BSC was developed providing the detailed measures for performance evaluation comprising five key element s: learning an d growth, clients, internal business processes, financials, and audit-related perspectives of corporate ethics. A survey was under taken along with descriptive statistics and confirmatory factor analysis in four auditing firms, to assess the external auditors ’ opinions for the proposed BSC measures. The results suggest that the development and use of the proposed BSC measures will enhance audit firms’ performance . Audit firms would have a better understanding of the various drivers of performance an d strategies thereby creating a competitive advantage. The results are valuable to not only audit firms but also auditing oversight boards who could direct the design of their monitoring process by understanding performance systems in different size audit firms.

Keywords: auditing , balanced scorecard, performance measurement systems, strategic management, performance management

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Hegazy, Mohamed A., The Balanced Scorecard: Measures that Drive Performance Evaluation in Auditing Firms. Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, October 2020, 1-26. (October 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3759208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3759208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
W Abdallah , M Alnamri
Non-financial performance measures and the BSC of multinational companies with multi-cultural environment: An empirical investigation
Cross Cultural Management , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 594 - 607 Posted: 2015
Crossref
O A Albertsen , R Lueg
The balanced scorecard's missing link to compensation: A literature review and an agenda for future research
Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 431 - 465 Posted: 2014
T L Albright , C M Burgess , S Davis
The balanced scorecard and twenty-first-century thoughts on motivation
The Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 50 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Arens , R Elder , M Beasley , M Hegazy
Auditing and assurance services: An integrated approach (Arab World Edition) Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,391
RANK
357,435
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies