Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Daylight Saving Time Adjustments on Investor Information Processing

52 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2021 Last revised: 31 Oct 2023

Tyler J. Kleppe

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Andrew T. Pierce

J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

Zac Wiebe

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Sam M. Walton College of Business

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: August 31, 2023

Abstract

Although Daylight Saving Time (DST) is thought to provide economic benefits, extant research documents various adverse effects of DST adjustments. However, prior research provides little conclusive evidence about the effects of DST adjustments on capital market participants. We examine the effects of “spring forward” DST advances, which disrupt the human sleep cycle and economic activities, on investors’ processing of earnings news. We find a delayed price response to earnings news released during the first week following a DST advance. We also find that this effect is stronger among firms with investors who are more likely to be trading on earnings news and among firms with less sophisticated investors. Our findings contribute to research on the unintended consequences of DST adjustments and to the growing literature on intra-investor variation in disclosure processing costs. Our study may be of interest to legislators currently debating proposed legislation that would eliminate DST phasing.

Keywords: daylight saving time, disclosure processing, earnings announcements, price discovery

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M48, D83

Suggested Citation:

Kleppe, Tyler J. and Pierce, Andrew T. and Wiebe, Zac and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, The Effects of Daylight Saving Time Adjustments on Investor Information Processing (August 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3767211 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3767211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
C Anderson , C R Platten
Sleep deprivation lowers inhibition and enhances impulsivity to negative stimuli
Behavioural Brain Research , volume 217 , issue 2 , p. 463 - 466 Posted: 2011
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
C M Barnes , D T Wagner
Changing to daylight saving time cuts into sleep and increases workplace injuries
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 1305 - 1317 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,924
RANK
110,225
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies