Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Performance as a Set of Four Dimensions: An Empirical Analysis

Journal of Business Research, Vol. 127, Apr, p. 45 - 65, 2021, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2021.01.012

Posted: 9 Mar 2021

P. Maik Hamann

Dresden University of Technology

Frank Schiemann

University of Bamberg

Date Written: January 25, 2021

Abstract

Organizational performance (OP) is a central construct in strategic management research. While previous studies established the multidimensionality of OP, relationships between OP and its dimensions remain unexplored. It is important to specify these relationships to determine how to measure OP and how to interpret empirical results. We apply confirmatory tetrad analysis and the framework of Edwards (2001) to test our hypotheses regarding the multidimensional construct type of OP based on a large sample of listed U.S. organizations. Our results suggest that OP is best modeled as a set of four related dimensions (i.e., profitability, liquidity, growth, and stock market performance). Our study has far-reaching implications for future research by showing that hypotheses concerning antecedents or consequences of OP should be developed at the dimensional level.

Keywords: Organizational performance Construct validation Multidimensional construct Structural equation modeling Confirmatory tetrad analysis

Suggested Citation:

Hamann, P. Maik and Schiemann, Frank, Organizational Performance as a Set of Four Dimensions: An Empirical Analysis (January 25, 2021). Journal of Business Research, Vol. 127, Apr, p. 45 - 65, 2021, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2021.01.012 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3772663
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies