Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing Novel and Relevant Theoretical Contributions with Literature Reviews

23 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2021

Chitu Okoli

SKEMA Business School

Date Written: January 27, 2021

Abstract

Authors of standalone literature reviews aim to develop scholarly knowledge and offer theoretical contributions, but beyond guidance for summarizing the literature, there is limited guidance on details for discovering insights for theoretical contributions that are scholastically novel and practically relevant. In this article, we present methodological guidelines for discovering novel and relevant theoretical insights from literature reviews, particularly using theoretical concept reviews, and then presenting them in a research agenda that highlights these theoretical contributions. We present perspectives on focusing on the value of scholarly articles in general and of literature reviews in particular; we delineate three kinds of value of the contributions of propositions and research questions in literature reviews according to if they summarize literature, reconcile conflicts in the literature, or develop insights that depart from the literature; and we explain the value of theoretical concept reviews for discovering theoretical insights.

Keywords: theoretical contribution, theory building, theoretical concept reviews, literature reviews, scholarly rhetoric

Suggested Citation:

Okoli, Chitu, Developing Novel and Relevant Theoretical Contributions with Literature Reviews (January 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3774487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3774487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,367
RANK
189,110
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Research within Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies