Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm and Audit Partner Style in Non-Big 4 Firms

47 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2021 Last revised: 10 Nov 2022

Matthew Baugh

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Lauren Matkaluk

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 18, 2022

Abstract

Non-Big 4 accounting firms audit more than half of U.S. publicly traded companies, and approximately half of U.S. non-Big 4 audit partners have prior work experience at Big 4 firms, but little is known about the effect of this type of auditor. We examine how the Big 4 style of former Big 4 auditors affects the financial statement comparability of non-Big 4 audit clients. We find evidence of imprinting of a Big 4 style among non-Big 4 partners with former Big 4 experience. Consistent with imprinting theory, we find that this imprinting effect is stronger when former Big 4 auditors left the Big 4 around the same time and, consistent with the strength of early career imprinting of Big 4 style, the imprinting effect is not stronger for FB4 audit partners with longer Big 4 experience. Our results provide novel evidence on the ways in which auditors foster financial statement comparability apart from the current audit firm’s unique audit methodologies. While prior literature on both audit partner and firm style focuses on Big 4 firms, we extend the limited literature on the role of non-Big 4 auditors in client financial reporting, and provide one explanation for why prior studies on comparability fail to find evidence of unique firm styles among non-Big 4 firms.

Keywords: financial statement comparability, auditor style, non-Big 4 audit firms, Big 4 experience, audit partners

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Baugh, Matthew and Matkaluk, Lauren and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Audit Firm and Audit Partner Style in Non-Big 4 Firms (October 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775111 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3775111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
H Ahn , C H Sonu
The effect of audit partner style on financial statement comparability
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 70 Posted: 2021
Audit Analytics
Who Audits Public Companies -2021 Edition Posted: 2021-03-23
B L Bayus , R Agarwal
The role of pre-entry experience, entry timing, and product technology strategies in explaining firm survival
Management Science , volume 53 , issue 12 , p. 1887 - 1902 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,011
RANK
229,982
2 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies