Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms That Age Well: Life Cycles and Default Risk

13 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 12 Jul 2021

Attila Balogh

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance

Jiri Svec

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance

Danika J. Wright

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance

Date Written: February 2, 2021

Abstract

The evolution of firms is not necessarily uniform. Exploring how this affects credit risk models, we find that firm life cycle provides additional explanatory power not captured by age. Firm age has an ambiguous effect on default risk and its impact during periods of high volatility is insignificant. Unobserved firm heterogeneity is an important determinant of credit default swap spreads and, when accounted for, riskier growth firms command a lower spread compared to mature firms that commonly benefit from the lowest spreads. Firms that age well by maintaining a growth profile are rewarded with lower cost of capital.

Keywords: Credit default swap, Credit risk, Firm life cycle

JEL Classification: G12, G32

Suggested Citation:

Balogh, Attila and Svec, Jiri and Wright, Danika J., Firms That Age Well: Life Cycles and Default Risk (February 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3777702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3777702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
C Alexander , A Kaeck
Regime dependent determinants of credit default swap spreads
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , p. 1008 - 1021 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J H Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: A test of the life cycle hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
R Blanco , S Brennan , I W Marsh
An Empirical Analysis of the Dynamic Relation between Investment-Grade Bonds and Credit Default Swaps
The Journal of Finance , volume 60 , p. 2255 - 2281 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S R Das , P Hanouna , A Sarin
Accounting-based versus market-based cross-sectional models of CDS spreads
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 33 , p. 719 - 730 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,197
RANK
394,837
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies