Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Tax Planning

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-23

51 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Casey M. Schwab

University of North Texas

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: February 7, 2021

Abstract

We use data envelopment analysis (DEA) to develop a measure of effective tax planning that is theoretically aligned with the Scholes-Wolfson paradigm and captures how efficiently firms maximize after-tax returns given their operating, investing, and financing decisions. We then (1) document the measure is associated with higher after-tax returns to provide assurance DEA achieves its objective in our setting, (2) demonstrate the measure is incremental to cash ETRs in predicting after-tax returns, (3) validate the measure by showing its association with lower tax and non-tax costs, and (4) provide evidence the measure captures something about taxes distinct from overall firm performance. This measure is useful to researchers given the known limitations of ETRs as a measure of tax planning.

Suggested Citation:

Schwab, Casey M. and Stomberg, Bridget and Williams, Brian, Effective Tax Planning (February 7, 2021). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3781011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3781011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
H Akamah , T Omer , S Shu
Finanical Constraints and Future Tax Outcome Volatility Posted: 2019
Crossref
Necmi K. Avkiran
Productivity Analysis in the Service Sector with Data Envelopment Analysis
Pages: 423 Posted: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Charnes , W Cooper , E Rhodes
Measuring the efficiency of decision making units
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 429 - 444 Posted: 1978
Crossref
J Core , W Guay , T Rusticus
Does weak governance cause weak stock returns? An examination of firm operating performance and investors' expectations
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 655 - 687 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
993
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,217
RANK
52,863
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies