Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost Impact of Sales Prediction Accuracy

49 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Kira Hoffmann

Copenhagen Business School

Matthias D. Mahlendorf

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Kim Pettersson

Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: February 9, 2021

Abstract

Managers’ expectations about future sales are at the core of managerial decision making. While prior literature examines the effects of demand expectations on cost behavior, we disentangle predicted and unpredicted sales changes. We draw on sales expectations from the joint harmonized EU program of business and consumer surveys and introduce the machine learning algorithm eXtreeme Gradient Boosting (xgboost). Consistent with our theory, both, results from subjective expectation data as well as results from the xgboost prediction model suggest that cost increases from unpredicted sales increases are significantly higher than cost increases from predicted sales increases, and costs are substantially more sticky for unpredicted than for predicted sales decreases. Thus, our study is relevant for managers and researchers to better quantify the cost impact of sales prediction accuracy. Moreover, by applying xgboost – a popular algorithm in data sciences – to predict future sales without internal data about the firms, our study also supports stakeholders in updating their beliefs about sales and costs, in particular for medium sized firms with little analyst coverage.

Keywords: cost management, resource adjustment costs, sales prediction, forecasting, machine learning, xgboost

JEL Classification: D24, M41, P22

Suggested Citation:

Hoffmann, Kira and Mahlendorf, Matthias D. and Pettersson, Kim, The Cost Impact of Sales Prediction Accuracy (February 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3782336 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3782336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,274
RANK
328,615
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies