Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Doing the Right Thing? The Voting Power Effect and Institutional Shareholder Voting

87 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 10 Dec 2021

Efrat Dressler

The Hebrew University of Jerusalem

Yevgeny Mugerman

Bar Ilan University

Date Written: December 7, 2021

Abstract

Through a combination of a controlled experiment and a survey, we examine the effect of voting power on shareholders’ voting behavior at general meetings. To avoid a selection bias, common in archival voting data, we exogenously manipulate shareholders’ power to affect the outcome. Our findings suggest that, when it comes to corporate decisions involving conflicts of interest, voting power nudges shareholders to oppose management and to choose the “right” alternative, that is, vote against a proposal which prima facie does not serve the company’s best interest, thereby taking an ethically sound decision. This effect obtained even when the dissenting vote contravened the choices of all other voters or self-interest. Furthermore, the drive “to do the right thing” was established as significant, above and beyond the economic incentive. We also demonstrate that strategic voting among institutional investors is contingent on voting power: When in a position to affect the outcome of a vote, institutional investors tend to eschew strategic considerations and display fewer consistent patterns in their voting, compared to situations in which their ability to make a difference is limited. In anticipation of a “bad” proposal to be put to vote at the general shareholder meeting, institutional investors prefer to negotiate terms with management beforehand, and vote against it only after such negotiations fail. Our results shed new light on the “behind the scenes” processes in shareholder voting and underscore the importance of institutional investor agency to corporate governance, accountability, and minority shareholder representation.

Keywords: Voting Power, Shareholder Voting, Business Ethics, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G23, G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Dressler, Efrat and Mugerman, Yevgeny, Doing the Right Thing? The Voting Power Effect and Institutional Shareholder Voting (December 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3785420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R Ashraf , J Narayanan , H E Ryan
Do pension-related business ties influence mutual fund proxy voting? Evidence from shareholder proposals on executive compensation
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2012
J Bezalel , Y Mugerman , E Winter
Meaning and gender differences
Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Economics , volume 95 Posted: 2021
B Black
Agents watching agents: the promise of institutional investor voice
UCLA Law Review , volume 39 , p. 811 - 893 Posted: 1992
O Branzei , J Frooman , B Mcknight , C Zietsma
What good does doing good do? The effect of bond rating analysts' corporate bias on investor reactions to changes in social responsibility
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 148 , p. 183 - 203 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,111
RANK
475,518
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies