Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Practical Guide to using Path Analysis: Mediation and Moderation in Accounting Research

53 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 30 Apr 2023

S. Jane (Kennedy) Jollineau

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Robert M. Bowen

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Date Written: December 16, 2021

Abstract

We use plain-English, figures, and simple math to explain how to use path analysis to test for mediation and moderation. Many theories in accounting research can be conceptualized as mediated, moderated or moderated-mediation models to investigate both simple and complex hypothesized relationships. Analyses using these models capture the dependent nature of an entire set of relationships rather than attempting to make piecemeal inferences from a series of individual regressions that may not be as revealing and may even yield misleading inferences. We introduce tools that help build theory, reduce the number of inferential tests that are relied on, and use bootstrapping for inferential tests of moderated mediation that do not rely on distributional assumptions. We provide two examples from published research to illustrate and apply these concepts. Tools for analysis include PROCESS (Hayes 2020) and structural equation modeling (SEM).

Keywords: theory-based model-building, path analysis, statistics, method, mediation, moderation, indirect versus direct effects, interaction, mechanisms, PROCESS, structural equation modeling (SEM), bootstrapping, confidence intervals

JEL Classification: C12, C18, C87, C90, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kennedy Jollineau, S. Jane and Bowen, Robert M., A Practical Guide to using Path Analysis: Mediation and Moderation in Accounting Research (December 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3786380 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3786380
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,282
RANK
13,258
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies