Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quarterly Footnote Disclosures as a Leading Indicator of Audit Risk

49 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Landi Morris

Northern Arizona University

Ari Yezegel

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 15, 2021

Abstract

Using a large sample of financial statement notes obtained from XBRL data, we investigate the role of quarterly footnote disclosures as a leading audit risk indicator. Existing requirements suggest quarterly footnotes are required when information in the footnotes exhibits significant changes from the prior annual filing. Yet, assurance requirements of interim reviews are limited. If auditors promptly respond to risk indicators in quarterly filings, we expect to see an increase in annual audit quality. In contrast to this expectation, we find that the proportion of quarterly footnotes disclosed is associated with lower audit quality, as measured by restatements, material weakness errors, abnormal accruals and the receipt of comment letters. The decline in audit quality is exacerbated during busy season audits and among new auditors. Consistently, investors appear to provide a more muted reaction to earnings announced by companies with more quarterly footnote disclosures. To strengthen identification, we examine specific footnotes and observe a positive association between quarterly mergers and acquisitions and income taxes footnotes and topic-related restatements and comment letters. Our results collectively suggest that quarterly footnote disclosures serve as risk signals that appear to be insufficiently addressed in the interim review process. These findings suggest that the PCAOB should consider recommending additional audit work during the interim reviews in the presence of elevated risk.

Keywords: Footnotes, quarterly reports, restatements, comment letters, material weakness errors, discretionary accruals, audit quality, XBRL

JEL Classification: M41,M42

Suggested Citation:

Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi and Morris, Landi and Yezegel, Ari, Quarterly Footnote Disclosures as a Leading Indicator of Audit Risk (February 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3786081 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3786081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor fair value expertise
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Examining the joint disclosure of text and numbers in complex financial statement notes. Working paper Posted: 2020
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 76 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,127
RANK
334,632
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies