Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Good Balance Goes Bad: a Discussion of Common Pitfalls When Using Entropy Balancing

Journal of Financial Reporting

60 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2021 Last revised: 23 Mar 2022

Jeff L. McMullin

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: November 15, 2021

Abstract

For many accounting research questions, empirical researchers cannot randomly assign observations to treatment conditions or identify a quasi-experimental setting. In these cases, entropy balancing (Hainmueller 2012) is an increasingly popular statistical method for identifying a control sample that is nearly identical to the treated sample with respect to observable covariates. In this paper, we compare entropy balancing’s approach of reweighting control sample observations to ordinary least squares and propensity score matching. We demonstrate that researchers applying entropy balancing in empirical settings involving panel data with features common in accounting research may encounter implementation issues that render the resulting estimates sensitive to relatively minor changes in the control sample or the research design. Using the setting of estimating the Big-N audit fee premium, we empirically demonstrate these issues and propose solutions.

Keywords: entropy balancing, matching, causal inference, covariate balance, audit fees

JEL Classification: C18, M4

Suggested Citation:

McMullin, Jeff L. and Schonberger, Bryce, When Good Balance Goes Bad: a Discussion of Common Pitfalls When Using Entropy Balancing (November 15, 2021). Journal of Financial Reporting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3786224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3786224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,775
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,772
RANK
22,430
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies