Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Entanglement of Accounting Goodwill: Einstein’s 'Spooky Action at a Distance'

The entanglement of accounting goodwill: Einstein’s “spooky action at a distance” Kleber Vasconcellos de Oliveira and Paulo Roberto Barbosa Lustosa. Accounting Forum (2022), Forthcoming. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01559982.2022.2089319.

Posted: 25 Feb 2021 Last revised: 24 Jun 2022

Kleber Vasconcellos de Oliveira

University of Brasilia

Paulo Roberto B. Lustosa

University of Brasilia

Date Written: November 19, 2020

Abstract

The idea of applying quantum physics concepts or methods to economic and/or social phenomena is not new. Quantum mechanics is increasingly entering the social world as a means of helping to explain social phenomena. This article extends this approach to the accounting field, to explore the economic nature of goodwill. After reviewing Barad’s concept of agential realism, we develop a quantum interpretation and present a new conceptual approach to accounting goodwill. In this theory-building exercise we discuss quantum concepts such as entanglement, diffraction and intra-action to propose a physical and economic inseparability between goodwill and other company assets. We maintain that intangible capital (goodwill) and physical capital are “entangled”, and this entanglement forms the company’s economic value. Unlike Einstein, we conclude that the entanglement of physical capital and intangible capital through intra-action is not “spooky action at a distance” but a form of wealth creation (or wealth destruction) in companies.

Keywords: Goodwill, Agential Realism, Quantum Entanglement, Quantum Social Science

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Oliveira, Kleber Vasconcellos de and Lustosa, Paulo Roberto B., The Entanglement of Accounting Goodwill: Einstein’s 'Spooky Action at a Distance' (November 19, 2020). The entanglement of accounting goodwill: Einstein’s “spooky action at a distance” Kleber Vasconcellos de Oliveira and Paulo Roberto Barbosa Lustosa. Accounting Forum (2022), Forthcoming. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01559982.2022.2089319., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3790427 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3790427
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
848
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies