Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Confucian Culture and Accounting Information Quality

Posted: 18 Mar 2021

Bo Cheng

Nanjing Audit University

Fei Pan

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Yang Xuan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 22, 2016

Abstract

This paper links accounting information quality to Confucianism, the most prevalent traditional culture in China. We examine the relation between Confucian culture and accounting information quality by public data of the listed companies from 2007 to 2013. Results indicate that Confucian culture can significantly improve reliability of financial reports, as well as transparency of information disclosure, both economically and statistically. Results remain unchanged after we consider endogeneity problem and other robustness checks. This study contributes to the literature not only by enriching the corporate governance theory in which Chinese traditional culture was embedded, but also providing empirical evidence on the role of the informal institution, such as Confucianism in corporate governance.

Keywords: Confucian Culture, Accounting Information Quality, Financial Reports Reliability, Information Disclosure Transparency

JEL Classification: F0, F239, G02

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Bo and Pan, Fei and Xuan, Yang, Confucian Culture and Accounting Information Quality (February 22, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3790690
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
757
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies