Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Sense of Ego Depletion: The Replication Crisis, a Path Forward, and Lessons for Accounting Researchers

Hurley, P.J. 2022. Making sense of ego depletion: The replication crisis, a path forward, and lessons for accounting researchers. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (forthcoming).

43 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2021 Last revised: 17 Nov 2022

Patrick J. Hurley

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: September 2, 2022

Abstract

Ego depletion, an influential social psychology theory that has been applied in auditing research, is currently in crisis following unsuccessful attempts to replicate the phenomenon. I summarize the questions surrounding ego depletion as a phenomenon and the strength model of self-control as its theoretical explanation. Existing evidence suggests depletion is a real phenomenon, but that its effect is likely overstated in prior literature. However, it seems that the strength model is not the best theoretical explanation for depletion. To provide a path forward to continue investigating this phenomenon, I describe four alternative theories from prior literature. Highlighting motivation as a common thread in these theories, I then propose a new theory that views ego depletion as transient cognitive fatigue. Finally, I discuss opportunities for future research in auditing, best practices for the design of these studies, and meta-lessons that accounting researchers can take from crises in psychology research.

Keywords: Ego Depletion, Theory, Cognitive Fatigue, Mental Fatigue, Auditing; Self-Control; Self-Regulation

Suggested Citation:

Hurley, Patrick J., Making Sense of Ego Depletion: The Replication Crisis, a Path Forward, and Lessons for Accounting Researchers (September 2, 2022). Hurley, P.J. 2022. Making sense of ego depletion: The replication crisis, a path forward, and lessons for accounting researchers. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (forthcoming). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3794259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3794259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,751
RANK
154,352
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies