Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Methods - Which Retroactive 'Corrections' Require Service Consent?

Posted: 13 Feb 2003

Felix B. Laughlin

Dewey Ballantine LLP

Kathleen C. Dale

Dewey Ballantine LLP

Abstract

Over the last three decades, the Internal Revenue Service has attempted, with uneven results, to uphold its expansive view of what constitutes a taxpayer-initiated change in method of accounting requiring the Service's consent under section 446(e). This issue arises when a taxpayer seeks to modify an accounting practice retroactively by (1) either unilaterally amending a prior return or, if an error in a prior return is found by the Service on audit, attempting to choose between permissible corrective practices, or (2) prospectively in a current return. This article focuses mainly on retroactive corrections.

From the 1970 revision of the section 446 regulations defining methods of accounting to the present, taxpayers have won about half of the approximately 40 cases involving whether retroactive accounting practice corrections constituted accounting method changes. The Service's most important victory was in Diebold, Inc. v. United States, decided by the Federal Circuit in 1989. For taxpayers, the most significant recent victory was in Northern States Power Co. v. United States, decided by the Eighth Circuit in 1998.

This article examines the confusing state of present law in an effort to clarify the important factors that go into determining which taxpayer-initiated retroactive accounting practice modifications are method changes requiring the Service's consent. The primary focus of the article will be to analyze the treatment by the Service and the courts of (1) retroactive changes in an accounting practice relating to a class or type of income or expense and (2) retroactive corrections under the error-within-a-method exception to method change treatment. Other corrections (which may be retroactive or prospective) under other exceptions to method change treatment are also noted. Part I sets forth the applicable law, including a discussion of the current regulatory definition of a change in method of accounting. Part I also identifies the fundamental legal principles that should come into play in these cases.

Part II discusses the four main factors used by the courts and the Service in deciding whether a retroactive modification of an accounting practice is a method change, before considering whether any exception to method change treatment might apply: (1) which return is being amended or corrected on audit (the first one in which the old practice was used or subsequent returns), (2) whether the old practice was a permissible or impermissible choice, (3) how long the taxpayer had used the old practice, and (4) whether the change is being initiated by the taxpayer or by the Service. The interplay of these factors is depicted in Diagram A, located at the end of the article.

Part III discusses the principal exception to method change treatment - the error-within-a-method exception - which can apply even if the initial analysis suggests that a retroactive modification otherwise could be a method change. Diagram B, located at the end of this article, illustrates when this exception applies.

JEL Classification: H25, M40

Suggested Citation:

Laughlin, Felix B. and Dale, Kathleen C., Accounting Methods - Which Retroactive 'Corrections' Require Service Consent?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=379782
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,308
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies