Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regression and Machine Learning Methods to Predict Discrete Outcomes in Accounting Research

Journal of Financial Reporting, accepted

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3801353

92 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2021 Last revised: 9 Mar 2022

Jake Krupa

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

Predictive modeling focuses on iteratively trying various combinations and transformations of a set of variables to generate a decision rule that predicts outcomes for new observations. Although accounting researchers have demonstrated interest in predictive modeling, we identify a lack of accessible and applied guidance on this topic for accounting settings. This issue has become more salient with the increasing availability of machine learning models that use unfamiliar terminology, are estimated using algorithms, and produce different outputs than other models used for causal inference. To overcome this gap, we provide an overview of how to predict discrete outcomes with logistic regression and machine learning models used in recent studies. We also include guidance and a comprehensive example - predicting investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission - that illustrates the elements of the prediction process, highlighting the importance of out-of-sample accuracy and unique aspects in the presentation of a prediction model's results.

Keywords: prediction, machine learning, deep learning, neural networks, random forests, gradient boosting, support vector machines, k-fold cross-validation.

JEL Classification: C10, C25, C45, C53, M48

Suggested Citation:

Krupa, Jake and Minutti-Meza, Miguel, Regression and Machine Learning Methods to Predict Discrete Outcomes in Accounting Research (March 1, 2022). Journal of Financial Reporting, accepted, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3801353, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3801353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3801353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,755
RANK
41,186
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies