Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Smoothing in Banks: Obfuscation or information?

50 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2021 Last revised: 10 Dec 2024

Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy

Tulane University - Accounting & Taxation

Barrett Wheeler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 22, 2024

Abstract

Discretionary income smoothing has been argued to increase bank opacity and degrade financial system stability by making banks more difficult to monitor. However, no direct empirical association between discretionary smoothing and opacity has been established to date. We argue that smoothing could reflect either the opportunistic exercise of discretion that disconnects loan loss provisions from changes in underlying credit quality, consistent with smoothing increasing opacity, or an informative exercise of discretion to communicate forward-looking information about loan losses. We examine the association between discretionary smoothing and the informativeness of loan loss provisions for a sample of banks from 1994 to 2019 and find that discretionary smoothing is, on average, associated with more informative loan loss provisions. However, this association is nuanced, with cross-sectional differences and changes over time. We find evidence that an intervention by the SEC into bank loan loss provisioning practices in the late 1990s curbed opportunistic smoothing via provisioning for homogeneous loans. Subsequently, smoothing is associated with more informative provisions, including for banks with both more homogeneous and more heterogeneous loan portfolios. Our findings are inconsistent with the notion that smoothing may be associated with greater opacity.

Keywords: loan loss provisions, smoothing, transparency

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Narayanamoorthy, Ganapathi S. and Wheeler, Barrett, Income Smoothing in Banks: Obfuscation or information? (August 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3805961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3805961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,008
RANK
344,140
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies