Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effectiveness of Earnings Management Control Mechanisms in India: A Diagnostic Study Using Structural Equation Modelling

Journal of Emerging Technologies and Innovative Research, 2018 JETIR December 2018, Volume 5, Issue 12

19 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021

Abdul Naser

University of Calicut - PSMO College

P Natarajan

Pondicherry University

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

The paper aims to analyse effectiveness of earnings management control mechanism in controlling earnings management activities in India. Specifically, effectiveness of corporate governance, external auditing and accounting standards in controlling earnings management practices are analysed. Primary data regarding auditor’s and accountant’s perception has been collected using structured questionnaire 205 respondents and analysed using descriptive statistics and Structural Equation modelling. The analysis shows that accrual based earnings management has significantly negative relationship with internal corporate governance, external audit and accounting standards. But real activity manipulations have significant negative relationship only with external audit. The findings of the research would pave a base for the regulators to strengthen the earnings anagement control mechanisms and other stakeholders could use the findings of the research to understand whether their interests in the companies are protected. This is the first study in India analysing auditors and accountants’ perception regarding accrual based earnings management practices and real activity manipulations and effectiveness of earnings management control mechanisms to the best of authors’ knowledge.

Keywords: Earnings management control mechanism, Structural equation modelling, Accrual based earnings management, Real activity manipulation

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Naser, Abdul and Natarajan, P, Effectiveness of Earnings Management Control Mechanisms in India: A Diagnostic Study Using Structural Equation Modelling (December 1, 2018). Journal of Emerging Technologies and Innovative Research, 2018 JETIR December 2018, Volume 5, Issue 12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3806429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Abdul Rahman , R Haneem Mohamed , F Ali
Board, audit committee, culture and earnings management: Malaysian evidence
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 783 - 804 Posted: 2006
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Van Tendeloo , A Vanstraelen
Earnings management under German GAAP versus IFRS
European Accounting Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 155 - 180 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C Fornell , D F Larcker
Evaluating structural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement error
Journal of marketing research , p. 39 - 50 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
RANK
826,677
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies