Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Updated Perceptions of Accounting Academics on the Review and Publication Process

35 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2021 Last revised: 24 Mar 2022

F. Greg Burton

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

William G. Heninger

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 24, 2022

Abstract

We update the Wood (2016) survey that gathered perceptions of academics regarding the review and publication process at the top academic journals to measure changes in perceptions over the last five years. We find that accounting academics generally perceive the overall process has not improved at top journals or has become worse since 2015. More specifically, we find that respondents think acceptance rates in top journals should nearly double. Respondents believe that reviewers and editors underweight practice relevance. They also believe reviewers overweight the criteria of incremental contribution, method, and rigor. Respondents believe that their institutions focus too much on publishing in top journals and that top journals favor certain topic areas and methodologies. We find that these opinions are held more strongly by new assistant professors than prior assistant professors, suggesting that the rising generation of scholars has stronger negative opinions about the review and publication process than a past generation.

Keywords: Review Process, Publication Process, Reviewers, Editors

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M49, M1, M10

Suggested Citation:

Burton, Fielding Greg and Heninger, William G. and Summers, Scott L. and Wood, David A., Updated Perceptions of Accounting Academics on the Review and Publication Process (March 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3809906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3809906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,246
RANK
260,398
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies