Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Client Cyber-Breach Have Reputational Consequences for the Local Audit Office?

Accounting Horizons (December 2021) Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Sharad Asthana

University of Texas-San Antonio

Rachana Kalelkar

University of Houston - Victoria

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: April 6, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether the public disclosure of a client cyber-breach hurts the reputation of the local engagement office of the incumbent auditor. Prior research suggests that alleged client misconduct (even if unrelated to accounting) can hurt the auditor’s reputation and bargaining position vis-à-vis other clients. By contrast, in a client cyberbreach the client is the victim of misconduct rather than perpetrator of the misconduct (SEC 2018). Consistent with a loss in the perceived value of the audit and a decline in the bargaining position of the incumbent auditor’s local audit office, during 2005-2018 following a client cyber-breach we find a decline in the stock price as well as audit fees for non -breach clients of the local audit office. We contribute to the literature by documenting that the negative effects of a cyber-breach are not limited to the breached client but spillover to the local audit office.

Keywords: client cyber-breach, local audit office, reputational consequences

Suggested Citation:

Asthana, Sharad and Kalelkar, Rachana and Raman, K. K., Does Client Cyber-Breach Have Reputational Consequences for the Local Audit Office? (April 6, 2021). Accounting Horizons (December 2021) Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3820972
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
520
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies