Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tick Size and Corporate Investments

67 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 28 Aug 2023

Pawel Bilinski

Bayes Business School, City University London

Anastasia Kopita

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Marios A. Panayides

University of Oklahoma; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 4, 2021

Abstract

Using the Tick Size Pilot experiment, we investigate the effect of tick size – a key market microstructure characteristic – on corporate investments. We document that an increase in tick size lowers the speed of price discovery and the extent to which stock prices capture signals about the value of new investments. This leads to stock underpricing and reduces managerial incentives to pursue new investments, which in turn has a negative effect on corporate investments. Slower price discovery is mediated by a reduction in algorithmic trading (AT) when tick size increases. The effect we document is not explained by changes in stock liquidity, institutional ownership, firm monitoring, financial constraints, or the quality of the firm’s information environment that may correlate with the tick size increase.

Keywords: algorithmic trading; analyst coverage; earnings forecasts; stock recommendations

JEL Classification: D53; G12; G14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Bilinski, Pawel and Kopita, Anastasia and Panayides, Marios A. and Panayides, Marios A., Tick Size and Corporate Investments (September 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3823081 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3823081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
154 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
A Agrawal , R Henderson
Putting patents in context: Exploring knowledge from MIT
Management Science , volume 48 , p. 44 - 60 Posted: 2002
A S Ahmed , Y Li , N Xu
Tick Size and Financial Reporting Quality in Small-Cap Firms: Evidence from a Natural Experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 914 Posted: 2020
A Amershi , S Sunder
Failure of Stock Prices to Discipline Managers in a Rational Expectations Economy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 177 - 195 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,625
RANK
231,609
154 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies