Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Mispricing of Persistent Non-GAAP Exclusions

47 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2021 Last revised: 30 Jun 2025

Kurt H. Gee

The Ohio State University

Ken Li

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Benjamin C. Whipple

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: June 30, 2025

Abstract

Despite concerns that non-GAAP earnings misleads investors, prior research has found little evidence to support these concerns after Regulation G. If mispricing exists, it likely occurs when firms exclude persistent items from non-GAAP earnings. Therefore, we develop a measure that captures exclusion persistence and we incorporate this measure into pricing tests. We find that investors misprice persistent exclusions, which is consistent with investors being misled by these non-GAAP adjustments. Further, the mispricing is greater when firms’ non-GAAP reporting changes from prior periods and is evident for both sophisticated and unsophisticated investors. Finally, we find that firm insiders sell more shares after firms exclude more persistent items, which is consistent with insiders exploiting inflated market values. Overall, we find that a nontrivial set of firms report non-GAAP earnings that excludes persistent items, that these exclusions mislead investors, and that firm insiders benefit from this mispricing.

Keywords: non-GAAP earnings; non-GAAP reporting quality, voluntary disclosure; exclusion persistence; investor mispricing, exclusion persistence, mispricing, insider trading

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Gee, Kurt H. and Li, Ken and Whipple, Benjamin C., Investor Mispricing of Persistent Non-GAAP Exclusions (June 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3825314 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3825314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Abdel-Meguid , J Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The Impact of the CEO's Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
K D Allee , N Bhattacharya , E L Black , T E Christensen
Pro Forma Disclosure and Investor Sophistication: External Validation of Experimental Evidence Using Archival Data
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 201 - 222 Posted: 2007
D Bao , Y Kim , G M Mian , L Su
Do Managers Disclose or Withhold Bad News? Evidence from Short Interest
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
M E Barth , I D Gow , ; , D J Taylor
Why do Pro Forma and Street Earnings not Reflect Changes in GAAP? Evidence from SFAS 123R
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , p. 526 - 562 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
634
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,311
RANK
96,103
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies