Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Accounting Useful for Forecasting GDP Growth? A Machine Learning Perspective

57 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 26 Apr 2021

Srikant Datar

Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit

Apurv Jain

MacroXStudio; Harvard Business School; Microsoft Corporation - Microsoft Research - Redmond

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Siyu Zhang

Harvard Business School

Date Written: December 1, 2020

Abstract

We provide a comprehensive examination of whether, to what extent, and which accounting variables are useful for improving the predictive accuracy of GDP growth forecasts. We leverage statistical models that accommodate a broad set of (341) variables---outnumbering the total time-series observations---and apply machine learning techniques to train, validate, and test the prediction models. For near-term (current and next-quarter) GDP growth, accounting does not improve the out-of-sample accuracy of predictions because the professional forecasters' predictions are relatively efficient. Accounting's predictive usefulness increases for more distant-term (three- and four-quarters-ahead) GDP growth forecasts: they contribute more to the model's predictions; moreover, their inclusion increases the model's out-of-sample predictive accuracy by 13 to 46%. Overall, four categories of accounting variables---relating to profits, accrual estimates (e.g., loan loss provisions or write-offs), capital raises or distributions, and capital allocation decisions (e.g., investments)---are most informative of the longer-term outlook of the economy.

Keywords: Accounting; Big Data; Elastic Net; GDP Growth; Machine Learning; Macro Forecasting; Short Fat Data

JEL Classification: E01, E32, E37, E60, M41

Suggested Citation:

Datar, Srikant and Jain, Apurv and Wang, Charles C. Y. and Zhang, Siyu, Is Accounting Useful for Forecasting GDP Growth? A Machine Learning Perspective (December 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3827510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
A Ang , G Bekaert , M Wei
Do macro variables, asset markets, or surveys forecast inflation better
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 54 , issue 4 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Arif , C M Lee
Aggregate investment and investor sentiment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 11 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B Baumohl
The secrets of economic indicators: Hidden clues to future economic trends and investment opportunities Posted: 2012
V Cerqueira , L Torgo , J Smailovi´csmailovi´c , I Mozetič
A comparative study of performance estimation methods for time series forecasting
International Conference on Data Science and Advanced Analytics (DSAA) , volume 16 , p. 529 - 538 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
476
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,488
RANK
137,584
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies