Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects and Value of Financial Information Under a Power Utility CAPM

44 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

David Johnstone

University of Sydney Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: April 15, 2021

Abstract

Using a distribution-free "payoffs" CAPM derived under power utility, we examine the parameters of the payoff distribution that have greatest effect on the market equilibrium price, cost of capital and investor welfare. Results are necessarily all numerical, and are obtained by simulating from lognormal and normal payoff distributions. Those distributions are calibrated to approximate the empirical probability distribution of returns and payoffs on the S&P500. The overriding result is that the benefits to investors of better information arise most strongly via better estimates of the mean payoff. Estimation risk surrounding the payoff risk or variance prove surprisingly much less important. That result under our CRRA CAPM replicates similar results in finance under the conventional CARA mean-variance CAPM. We also confirm the inherent disconnection under equilibrium between the market cost of capital and investor welfare.


Keywords: CRRA CAPM, power utility, cost of capital, decision relevance, accounting information theory

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G31

Suggested Citation:

Johnstone, David, The Effects and Value of Financial Information Under a Power Utility CAPM (April 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827485 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3827485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Report of the Study Group on the Objectives of Financial Statements
AICPA Posted: 1973
A Statement of Basic Accounting Theory Posted: 1966
Crossref
D Amiram , W R Landsman , E L Owens , S R Stubben
How are analysts' forecasts a¤ected by high uncertainty
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 45 , p. 295 - 318 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M E Barth
Measurement in …nancial reporting: The need for concepts. Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , p. 331 - 352 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
818
RANK
677,550
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies