Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Earning Manipulation, Strength of Financial Position and Financial Distress on Firm Value (Case of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Indonesia)

International Journal of Innovation, Creativity and Change, Volume 12, Issue 8, 2020

13 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2021

Armanto Witjaksono

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS) - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: June 24, 2020

Abstract

Financial accounting information is often used by researchers and investors to measures firms value. The objective of this research is to investigate whether earning manipulation, strength of financial position and financial distress effect firm value. In this research earning manipulation is measured using Beneish M-Score, strength of financial position is measured using Piotroski F - Score, Financial distress measured using Altmann Z-score, and firm value is measured using Price Book Value (PBV). We used 125 observations from publicly listed manufacturing companies in Indonesia Stock Exchange (Bursa Efek Indonesia) in 2014, 2015, and 2016. Our research uses panel data analysis, and as the hypothesis test using E-VIEW. Results of our research show that only financial distress influences firm value. However, all independent variables simultaneously influence firm value. This finding also indicates that financial distress is more important than the other earning manipulation and strength of financial position in determining firm value.

Keywords: Beneish M-Score, Piotroski F-Score, Altmann Z-score, Firm Value

Suggested Citation:

Witjaksono, Armanto, Effects of Earning Manipulation, Strength of Financial Position and Financial Distress on Firm Value (Case of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Indonesia) (June 24, 2020). International Journal of Innovation, Creativity and Change, Volume 12, Issue 8, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3831628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
E Altman , R G Haldeman , P Narayanan
ZETA analysis: A new Model to identify bankruptcy risk of corporations
Journal of Banking and Finance , p. 19 - 54 Posted: 1997
Crossref
E I Altman
Discriminant Analysis and The Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1969
Crossref
Edward I. Altman , Malgorzata Iwanicz-Drozdowska , Erkki K. Laitinen , Arto Suvas
Distressed Firm and Bankruptcy Prediction in an International Context: A Review and Empirical Analysis of Altman's Z-Score Model
Pages: 47 Posted: 11 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M D Beneish
The Detection of Earning Manipulations Posted: 1999-10
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
868
RANK
333,065
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies