Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory (In)Attention and Earnings Management

37 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021 Last revised: 5 May 2021

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Sam Melessa

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Ming (Mike) Yuan

South Dakota State University - Ness School of Management and Economics

Date Written: April 28, 2021

Abstract

We examine the relation between regulatory attention and earnings management. We provide evidence that securities regulators provide most of their comment letters for new accounting standards in the first or second year of new standard effectiveness, consistent with regulators expending more regulatory resources on financial accounts altered by new accounting standards. We expect that firms anticipate where regulators spend regulatory resources and adjust financial reports accordingly to meet earnings expectations. We test this expectation surrounding a recent major accounting standard change for revenue recognition in the U.S. – ASU 2014-09. Consistent with this expectation, we find that firms that just meet or beat analysts’ consensus earnings expectations do so using expenses rather than revenues in the first years of the new revenue recognition standard’s effectiveness. We also find that discretionary revenue is lower for all sample firms and that research and development expenditure is lower for firms that just meet or beat analysts’ earnings expectations in sample years following ASU 2014-09. Finally, we find lower levels of discretionary spending for firms that just meet or beat analysts’ earnings expectations in the post-period vs. the pre-period, with strong evidence for firms that normally focus on revenue maximization. Our evidence suggests that firms understand regulatory resource constraints and manage their financial reports to achieve earnings objectives.

Keywords: securities regulation, revenue, discretion, spending, earnings management, attention

JEL Classification: G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Black, Dirk E. and Melessa, Sam and Yuan, Ming (Mike), Regulatory (In)Attention and Earnings Management (April 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3838848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3838848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,504
RANK
261,368
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies