Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Social Media to Identify the Effects of Congressional Viewpoints on Asset Prices

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16034

57 Pages Posted: 14 May 2021 Last revised: 4 Feb 2022

Francesco Bianchi

Johns Hopkins University; NBER; CEPR

Roberto Gomez Cram

London Business School

Howard Kung

London Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the extent to which individual politicians affect asset prices using a high-frequency identification approach. We exploit the regular flow of viewpoints contained in a large volume of tweets from members of US Congress. Congressional tweets targeting individual firms are collected and classified based on their tone. Supportive (critical) tweets increase (decrease) stock prices of the targeted firm in minutes around the tweet. The price response persists for several days, during which analysts revise their forecasts about the firm cash flows. Selected politician tweets linked to legislation affect the stock prices of firms in the same industry as the targeted firm. The timeline of politician viewpoints within a particular bill exhibits surges in relevant news that predict roll call votes months before the signing of the bill. We highlight how the social media accounts of politicians are a valuable source of political news.

Keywords: Asset Pricing, High-Frequency Identification, partisanship, social media

JEL Classification: D72, G14

Suggested Citation:

Bianchi, Francesco and Gomez Cram, Roberto and Kung, Howard, Using Social Media to Identify the Effects of Congressional Viewpoints on Asset Prices (April 2021). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16034, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3846121
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
36 References
J M Addoum , A Kumar
Political sentiment and predictable returns
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , p. 3471 - 3518 Posted: 2016
M J Arteaga-Garavito , M Croce , P Farroni , I Wolfskeil
When the markets get co.v.i.d: Contagion, viruses, and information diffusion Posted: 2021
A J Auerbach
Measuring the effects of corporate tax cuts
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 32 , p. 97 - 120 Posted: 2018
F Belo , V D Gala , J Li
Government spending, political cycles, and the cross section of stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , p. 305 - 324 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
10 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies