Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cash-Relevance of Ifrs – European Legislation Regarding Dividends and Taxation in the Context of Ifrs Reporting

71 Pages Posted: 23 May 2021

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Marcus Schaubschlaeger

University of Augsburg

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Date Written: May 19, 2021

Abstract

This paper provides an overview of rules for taxation and dividend distributions for EU and UK listed entities in EU regulated markets. Empirical research on IFRS application typically considers IFRS as informative about future cash flows. However, taxes and distributable dividends are based on national rules different from IFRS in all EU countries prior to Brexit. To analyze these differences, researchers need to know about 1) how taxable and distributable income are determined in different EU countries mandating IFRS for most listed firms; 2) the differences between IFRS and the national rules on taxable and distributable income. Regarding Question 1), we analyze and classify the EU countries’ regulations about tax and income distributions and whether and how the are legally linked to IFRS. To address Question 2), we develop an ordinal measure of the de jure differences between IFRS income and taxable income on the one hand and IFRS income and distributable income on the other. Our study contributes to empirical research on the informativeness of IFRS by providing measures of book-tax and book-dividend conformity within the EU and the UK. By comparing the national rules to IFRS, we enhance the understanding of the relevance of IFRS reporting.

Keywords: IFRS, book-tax difference, book-dividend difference, EU regulated markets

JEL Classification: G18, K22, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Andre, Paul and Schaubschlaeger, Marcus and Schultze, Wolfgang, The Cash-Relevance of Ifrs – European Legislation Regarding Dividends and Taxation in the Context of Ifrs Reporting (May 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3849492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
C Albu , N Albu
The role and current status of IFRS in the completion of national accounting rules -Evidence from Romania
Accounting in Europe , volume 14 , issue 1&2 , p. 177 - 186 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J Alver , L Alver
The role and current status of IFRS in the completion of national accounting -Evidence from Estonia
Accounting in Europe , volume 14 , issue 1&2 , p. 80 - 87 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P André
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules -Evidence from European Countries
Accounting in Europe , volume 14 , issue 1&2 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Sara Alsarghali , Holger Daske , Hala Jada , Makiko Labonte
Following the blind? Database coding policies and the case of IFRS noncompliance
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2025
Crossref
Christopher Nobes , Christian Stadler
Deviations from the Mandatory Adoption of IFRS in Europe? Why Non-Adoption Does Not Mean Non-Compliance
European Accounting Review , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1497 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Giuseppe Zizzo
The European Harmonization of National Accounting Rules
, p. 281 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Paul André , Roberto Di Pietra
The European Harmonization of National Accounting Rules
, p. 1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
906
RANK
552,669
4 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies