Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Measurement Intensity

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 30

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

54 Pages Posted: 28 May 2021 Last revised: 25 Oct 2024

Ionela Andreicovici

IE Business School - IE University

Laurence van Lent

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management

Valeri V. Nikolaev

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

Ruishen Zhang

The University of Hong Kong

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 25, 2023

Abstract

Measurement is a ubiquitous component of markets and organizations. Despite its central place in the theory of the firm, the effect of measurement practices on firms' decisions and economic outcomes is not well-understood. We characterize companies by the intensity of their measurement practices to convert economic transactions into numbers reported in financial statements. In particular, we develop an algorithm that uses textual patterns to uniquely identify the application of measurement rules in firms' annual reports and construct firm-level scores of measurement intensity. We hypothesize that measurement-intensive firms are more likely to suffer from distortions when providing managerial incentives. We test theoretical predictions that link measurement intensity to firms' investment decisions, productivity, and the design of incentive
schemes. In line with these predictions, we find that more measurement-intensive firms exhibit lower levels of investment and hiring, lower total factor productivity and Tobin's Q, and attenuated the pay-performance sensitivity of CEO compensation contracts. Together, these findings are consistent with the predictions in Alchian and Demsetz (1972) that measurement problems are central to explaining firms' boundaries and contracting.

Keywords: measurement, metering problem, theory of the firm, productivity, investment

JEL Classification: D22, D23, D24, G12, J23, M40

Suggested Citation:

Andreicovici, Ionela and van Lent, Laurence and Nikolaev, Valeri V. and Zhang, Ruishen, Accounting Measurement Intensity (August 25, 2023). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 30, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3853951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
The American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
G P Baker
Incentive contracts and performance measurement
Journal of Political Economy , volume 100 , issue 3 , p. 598 - 614 Posted: 1992
R Ball
The firm as a specialist contracting intermediary: application to accounting and auditing Posted: 1989
R Ball
Accounting informs investors and earnings management is rife: Two questionable beliefs
Accounting Horizons , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 847 - 853 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,203
RANK
42,188
2 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies