Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Controlling for Misstatement Risk

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 3857752

43 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Jonathan E. Shipman

University of Arkansas

Quinn Thomas Swanquist

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Robert Lowell Whited

North Carolina State University

Date Written: January 2021

Abstract

Ex ante misstatement risk confounds nearly all settings relying on restatements as a measure of audit quality, but researchers continue to debate how to effectively control for this construct. In this study, we consider a recent approach that involves controlling for prior period restatements (“Lagged Restatements”). Using a controlled simulation as well as a basic archival analysis, we show that a lagged restatement control can significantly bias coefficient estimates. We demonstrate this bias using audit fees as a variable of interest but also show the same issue persists for other constructs that respond to the identification of a restatement (i.e., internal control material weaknesses and auditor changes). We conclude by discussing alternative approaches for controlling for ex ante misstatement risk and providing guidance for future research. Taken together, this study provides an important methodological contribution to the broad literature using restatements as a measure of audit quality.

Keywords: Misstatement Risk, Restatements, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Moon, James and Shipman, Jonathan E. and Swanquist, Quinn Thomas and Whited, Robert Lowell, On Controlling for Misstatement Risk (January 2021). Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 3857752, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3857752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3857752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Li Fang , Jeffrey A. Pittman , Yinqi Zhang , Yuping Zhao
Corporate Monitoring and Misreporting: The Role of Rules-based and Principles-based Accounting Standards
62 Pages · Posted: 27 Feb 2018 · Last revised: 30 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 489
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
James Chyz , Marc Eulerich , Benjamin Fligge , Miles A. Romney
Codetermination and Aggressive Reporting: Audit Committee Employee Representation, Tax Aggressiveness, and Earnings Management
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation · 60 Pages · Posted: 24 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 23 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 614
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jane Barton , Brian Burnett , Katherine Gunny , Brian P. Miller
The Importance of Separating the Probability of Committing and Detecting Misstatements in the Restatement Setting
Forthcoming at Management Science · 104 Pages · Posted: 6 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 442
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lauren Matkaluk , Nathan J. Newton , Mikhail Pevzner , Aleksandra Zimmerman
The Effect of Audit Partner National Office Experience on Audit and Career Outcomes
52 Pages · Posted: 14 Sep 2023 · Last revised: 24 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 212
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
221,251
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies