Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CSR engender trust? Evidence from investor reactions to corporate disclosures

52 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2021 Last revised: 12 Aug 2025

Jonathan Berkovitch

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Cassandra Estep

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Doron Israeli

IDC Herzliya - Arison School of Business; Nazarbayev University - Graduate School of Business

Suhas A. Sridharan

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Date Written: June 17, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether investor perceptions of firm’s corporate social responsibility activity (CSR) affects investor trust as reflected in disclosure credibility. We use stock price discovery as a proxy for disclosure credibility and, therefore, examine the relation between CSR and stock price discovery at earnings announcements. We find robust evidence that firms with stronger CSR enjoy faster incorporation
of earnings news into stock prices. This faster price discovery exists only for positive earnings news, reinforcing the perspective that CSR leads investors to maintain a positive view of the firm. To clarify the mechanism, we use an experiment that provides evidence of the causal effects of a firm’s CSR on investor perceptions of credibility. We also show that high CSR firms experience lower investor uncertainty, more trading volume, and stronger earnings response coefficients.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility activity (CSR), investor trust, informational price efficiency, price discovery

JEL Classification: G24, M14, M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Berkovitch, Jonathan and Estep, Cassandra and Israeli, Doron and Sridharan, Suhas A., Does CSR engender trust? Evidence from investor reactions to corporate disclosures (June 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3858135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3858135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: An analysis of the exogenous covid-19 market crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
The relation among capital markets, financial disclosure, production efficiency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,538
RANK
132,890
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies