Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Earnings announcements and return noise: Evidence from the impact of peer returns on IPO offer price revision

51 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2021 Last revised: 19 Jun 2025

Xiaoxu Ling

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Yong Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: June 5, 2021

Abstract

Since Ball and Brown (1968), research has focused on how earnings announcements affect the level of stock prices. More recently, Arya et al.’s (2017) theory suggests an additional, previously unexplored role of accounting disclosure: reducing noise in and therefore enhancing the decision-usefulness of stock prices. We study this role of earnings announcements by assessing their impact on the decision-usefulness of stock returns. Specifically, we examine the extent to which industry peer portfolio returns around earnings announcements (peer EA returns) and peer returns outside these windows (peer non-EA returns) are differentially useful for IPO offer price revisions during the pre-IPO filing period. This setting is advantageous because (1) peer valuation is a critical source of information for IPO valuation, and (2) information transfer is largely unidirectional from peers to issuers due to the SEC’s strict pre-IPO quiet period restrictions and the absence of issuer stock prices. We find that IPO offer price revisions are 60% more sensitive to peer EA returns than non-EA returns–while a 1 percent of peer non-EA returns leads to a 0.25 percent increase in IPO offer price, a 1 percent of EA returns leads to a 0.40 percent increase. This suggests that earnings announcements result in less noise in stock returns. The results cannot be explained by issuers’ partial adjustments of offer price during the filing period. High peer accounting quality further improves the usefulness of peer EA returns. Overall, we provide initial evidence on the effect of earnings announcements in reducing noise in stock prices. 

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Xiaoxu and Zhang, Ivy and Zhang, Yong,

Earnings announcements and return noise: Evidence from the impact of peer returns on IPO offer price revision

(June 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3860628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3860628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R Ramanan
Synergy between accounting disclosures and forward-looking information in stock prices
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2017
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H White
Externalities of public firm presence: evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
S Baginski
Intraindustry information transfers associated with management forecasts of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 196 - 216 Posted: 1987
E Bajo , J Thomas , S Karen , T Hassan
Underwriter networks, investor attention, and initial public offerings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , p. 376 - 408 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,440
RANK
340,852
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies