Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncovering the Iceberg from Its Tip: A Model of Publication Bias and p-Hacking

32 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2021 Last revised: 30 Jun 2021

Campbell R. Harvey

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Yan Liu

Purdue University

Date Written: June 29, 2021

Abstract

Harvey, Liu, and Zhu (2016) argue that a large proportion of published asset-pricing factors are likely false. Researchers may try many variables and report only the significant ones, so-called p-hacking. Some recent work challenges the prevalence of p-hacking and argues that the amount of shrinkage necessary for reported results is trivial. We present a model where there are true anomalies and false anomalies. Our model does a good job of fitting the observed population. Our evidence is consistent with the idea that a large proportion of anomalies are false and reinforces the need to raise the thresholds for statistical significance.

Keywords: p-hacking, Data mining, Anomalies, Simulations, Publication bias, Multiple testing

JEL Classification: C12, G10, G12

Suggested Citation:

Harvey, Campbell R. and Liu, Yan, Uncovering the Iceberg from Its Tip: A Model of Publication Bias and p-Hacking (June 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3865813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3865813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Laurent Barras , Olivier Scaillet , Russ Wermers
False discoveries in mutual fund performance: Measuring luck in estimated alphas
Journal of Finance , volume 65 , p. 179 - 216
Crossref
Andrew Chen
The limits of p-hacking: A thought experiment
Journal of Finance, Forthcoming Posted: 2021
Crossref
Andrew Chen
Do t-stat hurdles need to be raised? Working Paper Posted: 2020
Andrew Chen , Tom Zimmermann
Publication bias and the cross-section of stock returns
Review of Asset Pricing Studies , volume 10 , p. 249 - 289 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
867
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,854
RANK
63,790
3 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies