Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Collection, Sharing and Analysis to Tackle Undeclared Work: A Toolkit

31 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2021

Colin Williams

University of Sheffield - School of Management

Date Written: June 15, 2021

Abstract

Collecting, sharing and analysing data can improve enforcement authority performance not only in detecting undeclared work but also preventing non-compliance. The aim of this toolkit is to support enforcement authorities in the Western Balkans to improve their knowledge and awareness of how to develop efficient databases to detect, prevent and predict undeclared work. The objectives of this toolkit are (i) to discuss the challenges faced around data collection, sharing and analysis and (ii) to offer tips on how data collection, sharing and analysis could be improved, not least by reporting good practices.

Keywords: informal sector, informal economy, undeclared work, West Balkans

JEL Classification: H26, J46, K42, O17, P37

Suggested Citation:

Williams, Colin, Data Collection, Sharing and Analysis to Tackle Undeclared Work: A Toolkit (June 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3867572 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3867572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
H Altalhi Abdulrahman , J M Luna , M A Vallejo , S Ventura
Evaluation and comparison of open-source software suites for data mining and knowledge discovery
WIREs Data Mining Knowl Discov , volume 7 Posted: 2017
F De Wispelaere , J Pacolet
Data Mining for More Efficient Enforcement: a learning resource. European Platform Tackling Undeclared Work Posted: 2017
F De Wispelaere , J Pacolet
Data Mining for More Efficient Enforcement: a toolkit. European Platform Tackling Undeclared Work Posted: 2017
Compliance Risk Management Guide for tax administrations
European Commisison DG TAXUD Posted: 2010
Load more
2 Citations
Colin Williams
Data Collection, Sharing and Analysis To Tackle Undeclared Work: A Learning Resource
11 Pages · Posted: 6 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 21
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Colin Williams
Towards a Holistic Approach for Tackling Undeclared Work in the Western Balkans: A Self-Assessment Survey
30 Pages · Posted: 6 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 17
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
625
RANK
658,366
2 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law, Institutions & Economic Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies