Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identification of Analyst Coverage Initiations

Posted: 9 Jul 2021

Jay Jung

City, University of London - Bayes Business School

Yong Yu

University of Texas at Austin

Wuyang Zhao

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: June 27, 2021

Abstract

Researchers have traditionally inferred analysts’ coverage initiations using an analyst’s and/or a broker’s first recommendation for a firm in IBES. Using a large hand-collected sample of analyst reports announcing coverage initiations, we document that 17% of the traditionally-inferred initiations are not actual initiations (Type I error) and that 50% of the actual initiations are not identified using the traditional approach (Type II error). We show that these measurement errors lead to systematic biases in a variety of firm and analyst characteristics and in the distribution of analysts’ recommendations, and that correcting for these measurement errors changes an important prior finding. We assess the effectiveness of the methods that prior studies have used to mitigate the measurement errors, and suggest a new method that improves upon these prior methods.

Keywords: analyst, coverage initiation, measurement error, research implications

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Jay Heon and Yu, Yong and Zhao, Wuyang, Identification of Analyst Coverage Initiations (June 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3874894
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,198
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies