Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Scope of Application of Management Accounting Methods in Polish Enterprises

Posted: 13 Apr 2003

Anna Szychta

University of Lodz - Department of Accounting

Abstract

The transformation of Poland's economic system in the 1990s as a result of transition from a centrally-planned economy to a market-based system involves significant changes in the regulatory context and in accounting practice and education.

This paper presents the scope of application of management accounting concepts and methods in 60 Polish enterprises covered by a questionnaire survey carried out by the author between November 1998 and December 1999 in enterprises located in central and southern Poland. The selected companies were interviewed by means of a postal survey, with inquire forms delivered in person in some cases.

The detailed analyses carried out in this paper and the conclusions presented there were also based on information obtained from documentary evidence kept by the enterprises and from direct interviews conducted in the course of work in teams engaged in analysis and assessment of cost accounting practices in a number of large and medium Polish enterprises and in management accounting system designing in these enterprises.

The empirical research carried out is aimed at verification of a number of hypotheses including the following:

(1) modification of cost accounting systems and implementation of management accounting tools in Polish enterprises is brought about by many different factors, the most important being growth of competition and ownership changes in business entities.

(2) Polish enterprises implement mostly the methods and techniques of operational management accounting.

(3) Short-term budgeting for cost centres is the most widely used method of management accounting.

Keywords: accounting practice in Poland, modification, implementation, cost accounting systems, calculation, budgeting, future development trends

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M47

Suggested Citation:

Szychta, Anna, The Scope of Application of Management Accounting Methods in Polish Enterprises. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=387601
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,426
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies