Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Outliers and Robust Inference in Archival Accounting Research

82 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021 Last revised: 3 May 2023

Joachim Gassen

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

David Veenman

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School (ABS)

Date Written: May 1, 2023

Abstract

Note: a new version of this paper is available at: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4975569 ("Estimation Precision and Robust Inference in Archival Research").



Archival variable distributions are frequently skewed or heavy-tailed as a result of the scaling of variables and the use of heterogeneous samples of firms. We illustrate that even in large samples, such non-normality in commonly used variables makes linear regression estimates based on OLS imprecise (i.e., inefficient) and results in low statistical power. We next show that "robust regression" estimators can limit this efficiency loss, but that their performance varies substantially across estimator type and the choice of "normal efficiency." We also find that robust regression estimators often materially reduce sample size, similar to variable-by-variable truncation, and that the non-random downweighting of observations identified as outliers can materially change coefficient estimates and their interpretation. Lastly, we show that a common approach to cluster standard errors with robust estimators leads to inflated t-statistics and potentially incorrect inferences. We provide guidance on how researchers can improve their understanding of the effects of non-normal variable distributions and how to improve the inferences drawn from robust regression estimators.

Keywords: Skewness, non-normality, OLS, efficiency, outliers, robust regression, MM-estimation, scaling, leverage

JEL Classification: C13, C15, C18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gassen, Joachim and Veenman, David, Outliers and Robust Inference in Archival Accounting Research (May 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3880942 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3880942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
J Adams , D Hayunga , S Mansi , D Reeb , V Verardi
Identifying and Treating Outliers in Finance
Financial Management , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 384 Posted: 2019
R Andersen
Modern Methods for Robust Regression Posted: 2008
F J Anscombe
Graphs in Statistical Analysis
The American Statistician , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 21 Posted: 1973
M Aquaro , P Čížek
One-Step Robust Estimation of Fixed-Effects Panel Data Models
Computational Statistics & Data Analysis , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 536 - 548 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
808
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,163
RANK
70,075
4 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies