Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Disappearance of the Zero-Earnings Discontinuity: SOX, Dotcom Boom or Gradual Decline?

Finance Research Letters, 2022

15 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2021 Last revised: 20 Jun 2022

Patrick Chardonnens

University of Fribourg - University of Fribourg - Faculty of Economics and Social Science; ZHAW School of Management and Law

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Martin Wallmeier

University of Fribourg - Faculty of Economics and Social Science

Date Written: May 2022

Abstract

The zero-earnings discontinuity in the US disappeared around the time when the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX) became effective, suggesting that SOX may have reduced the small loss avoidance by firms. In this paper, we examine a potential confounding effect arising from the dotcom boom at the turn of the millennium. Many newly listed dotcom firms had no revenues but high market capitalizations. Therefore, they mechanically fell into the smallest loss interval, artificially reducing the zero-earnings discontinuity. Once this dotcom effect is accounted for, our results no longer suggest a sharp (causal) effect of SOX on the decline in the zero-earnings discontinuity.

Keywords: Earnings management, Zero-earnings discontinuity, SOX, Dotcom boom, Earnings distribution, Small loss avoidance

JEL Classification: M48, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chardonnens, Patrick and Fiechter, Peter and Wallmeier, Martin, The Disappearance of the Zero-Earnings Discontinuity: SOX, Dotcom Boom or Gradual Decline? (May 2022). Finance Research Letters, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3882896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3882896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M Amar , E Chen , I Gavious , H Weihs
Financial reporting misconduct: Evidence from the field
Finance Research Letters Posted: 2021
V A Atanasov , B S Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
E Bartov , D A Cohen
The "Numbers Game" in the Pre-and Post-Sarbanes-Oxley Eras
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 24 , p. 505 - 534 Posted: 2009
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , K K Nelson
An alternative interpretation of the discontinuity in earnings distributions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , p. 525 - 556 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
658,366
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies