Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating discretionary accruals in the cross-section of firms: a reinterpretation of the Jones model and its variants

44 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2021 Last revised: 23 Apr 2025

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Martin Wallmeier

University of Fribourg - Faculty of Economics and Social Science

Date Written: April 23, 2025

Abstract

In this paper, we challenge a key underlying assumption of the Jones model that there is no information available about the cross-sectional distribution of the "true" profitability of firms. When we incorporate this neglected information into a Bayesian framework, the resulting model provides both a theoretical foundation and practical guidance for researchers on which variant of the Jones model is suitable in which setting. Specifically, we find that the appropriate use depends on the sampling of firms suspected of earnings management: (i) the modified Jones plus cash flow model for random sampling, (ii) the modified Jones plus profitability model for sampling on firms' reported earnings, and (iii) the modified Jones model for sampling on the Bayesian estimate of firms' true profitability.

Keywords: Earnings management, Jones model, Discretionary accruals, Normal accruals, Bayesian analysis, Total accruals. JEL: M41, G17

JEL Classification: M41, G17

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Wallmeier, Martin, Estimating discretionary accruals in the cross-section of firms: a reinterpretation of the Jones model and its variants (April 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3882906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3882906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
B C Ayers , J Jiang , P E Yeung
Discretionary accruals and earning management: An analysis of pseudo earnings targets
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 617 - 652 Posted: 2006
M Breuer , H H Schütt
Accounting for uncertainty: An application of Bayesian methods to accruals models
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , p. 726 - 768 Posted: 2023
P Dechow , W Ge , C Schrand
Understanding earnings quality: A review of the proxies, their determinants and their consequences
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 344 - 401 Posted: 2010
P M Dechow
Accounting earnings and cash flows as measures of firm performance: The role of accounting accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 18 , p. 3 - 42 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,388
RANK
354,044
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies