Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Diligence, objectivity, quality and accuracy

Journal of Accounting Literature (DOI: 10.1108/JAL-02-2023-0031)

30 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2021 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Rajeev R. Bhattacharya

Washington Finance and Economics

Mahendra Gupta

Washington University, St. Louis

Date Written: December 29, 2023

Abstract

Purpose. We provide a general framework of behavior under asymmetric information and develop indices of diligence, objectivity, and quality by an analyst and analyst firm about a studied firm, and relate them to the accuracy of its forecasts. We test the associations of these indices with time.

Methodology. The test of Public Information versus Non-Public Information Models provides the index of diligence, which equals one minus the p-value of the Hausman Specification Test of Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) versus Two Stage Least Squares (2SLS). The test of Objectivity versus Non-Objectivity Models provides the index of objectivity, which equals the p-value of the Wald Test of zero coefficients versus non-zero coefficients in 2SLS regression of earnings forecast residual. The exponent of the negative of the standard deviation of the residuals of the analyst forecast regression equation provides the index of analytical quality. Each index asymptotically equals the Bayesian posterior probability, by the analyst and analyst firm about the studied firm, of the relevant behavior.

Findings. We find that ex post accuracy is a statistically and economically significant increasing function of the product of the indices of diligence, objectivity, and quality by the analyst and analyst firm about the studied firm, which asymptotically equals the Bayesian posterior joint probability of diligence, objectivity, and quality. We find that diligence, objectivity, quality, and accuracy did not improve with time.

Originality. There has been no previous work done on the systematic and objective characterization and joint analysis of diligence, objectivity, and quality of analyst forecasts by an analyst and analyst firm for a studied firm, and their relation with accuracy, and our paper puts together the frontiers of various disciplines.

Keywords: Asymmetric information, Analyst forecasts, Management guidance, Earnings, Diligence, Objectivity, Quality, Accuracy, Hausman Specification Test, Wald Test, Bayesian, Big Data in finance Paper type Research paper JEL Classification -C23, C26, G12, G14, G24, M41

JEL Classification: G12; G14; G24; C23; C26; M41.

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharya, Rajeev and Gupta, Mahendra R., Diligence, objectivity, quality and accuracy (December 29, 2023). Journal of Accounting Literature (DOI: 10.1108/JAL-02-2023-0031), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3883602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3883602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
G Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
A Alford , P Berger
A simultaneous equations analysis of forecast accuracy, analyst following, and trading volume
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 219 - 240 Posted: 1999
H Aman , W Beekes , H Berkman , M Bohmann , M Bradbury , E Chapple , M Chang , V Clout , R Faff , J Han , D Hillier , A Hodgson , B Howeison , J Jona , M Linnenluecke , T Loncan , B Mccredie , D Michayluk , N Mroczkowski , Z Pan , V Patel , E Podolski , N Soderstrom , T Smith , G Tanewski , K Walsh , M Wee , S Wright
Responsible science: Celebrating the 50-year legacy of Ball and Brown (1968) using a registration-based framework
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 56 , p. 129 - 150 Posted: 2019
K Arrow
Essays in the Theory of Risk Bearing Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,256
RANK
267,591
12 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies