Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Universal Stress Scenario Approach for Capitalising Non-modellable Risk Factors Under the FRTB

European Banking Authority Research Paper No. 14

42 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2021 Last revised: 11 Nov 2024

Martin Aichele

European Central Bank (ECB)

Marco Giovanni Crotti

European Banking Authority

Benedikt Rehle

European Parliament

Date Written: July 12, 2021

Abstract

EU legislators mandated the European Banking Authority to propose a stress scenario methodology for capitalising non-modellable risk factors (NMRF) as foreseen under the Basel Fundamental Review of the Trading Book (FRTB) rules for market risk. In this paper, we present the foundations of such a methodology.

By design, it is universally applicable to all kinds of risk factors to which a bank may be exposed, and it caters for a wide range of data availability by adjusting the stress scenario for the number of returns observed in the calibration period. It captures non-linearities in the portfolio loss profile against changes in the NMRF, while reducing the computational effort and being simple.

To motivate the values set for some parameters in the methodology, we use a set of skewed generalised ‘t’ (SGT) distributions as a generic tool for describing a wide universe of real historical returns from all asset classes.

Finally, we extend the methodology from single risk factors to segments of curves or surfaces as envisaged in the FRTB.

Keywords: Market risk, FRTB, NMRF, capital requirements for non-modellable risk factors, sampling error for the expected shortfall, SGT distributions

JEL Classification: C13, C46, G21, G28, G32

Suggested Citation:

Aichele, Martin and Crotti, Marco Giovanni and Rehle, Benedikt, A Universal Stress Scenario Approach for Capitalising Non-modellable Risk Factors Under the FRTB (July 12, 2021). European Banking Authority Research Paper No. 14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3884845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3884845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Carlo Acerbi
Coherent Representations of Subjective Risk Aversion, chapter 10 of Risk Measures for the 21st Century (editor Giorgio Szegő) Posted: 2004
Pilar Abad , Sonia Muela , Carmen Lopez , Miguel Sánchez-Granero
Evaluating the performance of the skewed distributions to forecast value-at-risk in the global financial crisis
The Journal of Risk , volume 18 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2016-05
Carlo Acerbi , Dirk Tasche
On the coherence of expected shortfall
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 26 , issue 7 , p. 1487 - 1503 Posted: 2002-07
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Calculation of RWA for market risk (MAR) Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,029
RANK
276,216
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies