Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Adequacy and Firms’ MD&A Disclosures

Contemporary Accounting Research, 2024, Volume 41, Issue 1, pp. 126-162.

60 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2021 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Stephen V. Brown

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Lisa A. Hinson

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Date Written: October 28, 2023

Abstract

Firms are required to provide financial information via the financial statements and the MD&A—a narrative explanation of the financial statements. Our study examines how firms use the MD&A channel when their financial statement channel is inadequate. We focus on two textual attributes of the MD&A—non-GAAP disclosure and forward-looking statements. We find that firms with less adequate financial statements discuss non-GAAP measures more and provide a larger number of forward-looking statements. We then identify the topics, and therefore the context, in which non-GAAP and forward-looking disclosures are provided. In addition, we examine how firms use the mix of non-GAAP and forward-looking disclosures when the financial statement channel is inadequate. Our study provides evidence on how managers use the MD&A, a relatively more flexible channel, to provide information when their financial statement channel is less adequate.

Keywords: MD&A; disclosure; financial statements; text segmentation; machine learning; topic analysis.

JEL Classification: C6, G3, M2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Stephen V. and Hinson, Lisa A. and Tucker, Jennifer, Financial Statement Adequacy and Firms’ MD&A Disclosures (October 28, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, 2024, Volume 41, Issue 1, pp. 126-162., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3891572 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3891572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Financial reporting and supplemental voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 885 - 913 Posted: 2007
C Ball , G Hoberg , V Maksimovic
Disclosure, business change and earnings quality Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,721
RANK
38,450
13 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies