Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do investor reactions to merger announcements shape the writing of SEC filings?

55 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2021 Last revised: 15 Mar 2023

Nihat Aktas

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Eric de Bodt

NHH

Can Dogan

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

The way filings of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) with the Security Exchange Commission (SEC) are written might depend on investor reactions to initial public announcements of the deal. We examine this investor feedback hypothesis focusing on the readability and timing of a large sample of hand-collected SEC documents. The results are unambiguous: Acquirers write documents with lower readability and file them faster when investors react negatively to the deal announcement. These results are in line with strategic obfuscation efforts and robust to alternative empirical choices, such as controlling for deal complexity or the propensity of the firm to make complex disclosure and using an instrumental variables approach.

Keywords: mergers and acquisitions, SEC filings, readability, time to file, investor feedback

JEL Classification: G34, G40

Suggested Citation:

Aktas, Nihat and de Bodt, Eric and Dogan, Can, Do investor reactions to merger announcements shape the writing of SEC filings? (March 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3901815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3901815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
N Aktas , E De Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO narcissism and the takeover process: From private initiation to deal completion
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , p. 113 - 137 Posted: 2016
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Negotiations under the threat of an auction
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , p. 241 - 255 Posted: 2010
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Serial acquirer bidding: An empirical test of the learning hypothesis
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 17 , p. 18 - 32 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,546
RANK
234,143
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies