Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating determinants of disclosure quality using Artificial Neural Network

11 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2021

Mehdi Sarikhani

Department of Accounting, Safashahr Branch, Islamic Azad University, Safashahr, Iran.

Date Written: August 14, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this research is to propose a model for predicting disclosure quality using artificial neural network. Toward this end, this research has used the variables related to liquidity, profitability, leverage, company size, corporate governance and other effective variables by using the artificial neural network. Minimal-Redundancy-Maximal-Relevance criterion and sequential feature selection as two Feature selection methods are used to preprocess the data that could improve the accuracy of model. Results show that in the model where all variables are applied, the linear regression correlation between network output and scope data is% 87. 8 while in the model where the seven variables of Ownership concentration, Assets-in-place, Age, Profit margin, Percentage of non-executive board members, Institutional ownership ratio, and Number of employees are used, this correlation stands at% 92. 26. Also, these results show the significant effect of the corporate governance variables on disclosure quality.

Keywords: Disclosure Quality; Artificial Neural Network; feature selection

Suggested Citation:

Sarikhani, Mehdi, Investigating determinants of disclosure quality using Artificial Neural Network (August 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3905240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3905240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
I Adelopo
Voluntary disclosure practices amongst listed companies in Nigeria
Advances in Accounting, incorporating Advances in International Accounting , volume 27 , p. 338 - 345 Posted: 2011
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate mandatory disclosure practices in Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
K Alsaeed
The Association between firm characteristics and disclosure
Journal of American Academy of Business , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 310 - 321 Posted: 2005
D G Barako , P Hancock , H Y Izan
Factors influencing voluntary corporate disclosure by Kenyan companies
Corporate Governance , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 125 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
RANK
798,750
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies