Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Convergence of Big Data and Accounting: Innovative Research Opportunities

Technological Forecasting & Social Change

37 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021

Awad Ibrahim

University of Portsmouth - Portsmouth Business School, Students

Ahmed A. Elamer

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School; Department of Accounting, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Amr Nazieh Ezat

Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University

Date Written: August 24, 2021

Abstract

This study aims to develop accounting standards, curriculums, and research to cope with the rapid development of big data. The study presents several potential convergence points between big data and different accounting techniques and theories. The study discusses how big data can overcome the data limitations of six accounting issues: financial reporting, performance measurement, audit evidence, risk management, corporate budgeting and activity-based techniques. It presents six exciting research questions for future research. Then, the study explains the potential convergence between big data and agency theory, stakeholders theory, and legitimacy theory. This theoretical study develops new convergence points between big data and accounting by reviewing the literature and proposing new ideas and research questions. The conclusion indicates a significant convergence between big data and accounting on the premise that data is the heart of accounting. Big data and advanced analytics have the potential to overcome the data limitations of accounting techniques that require estimations and predictions. A remarkable convergence is argued between big data and three accounting theories. Overall, the study presents helpful insights to members of the accounting and auditing community on the potential of big data.

Keywords: Big data; Analytics; Accounting; Data Science; Business Intelligence.

Suggested Citation:

Ibrahim, Awad and Elamer, Ahmed Ahmed and Ezat, Amr Nazieh, The Convergence of Big Data and Accounting: Innovative Research Opportunities (August 24, 2021). Technological Forecasting & Social Change, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3910541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Aboud , B Robinson
Fraudulent financial reporting and data analytics: an explanatory study from Ireland
Accounting Research Journal Posted: 2021
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in the UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
K Al-Htaybat , L V Alberti-Alhtaybat
Big data and corporate reporting: impacts and paradoxes
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 850 - 873 Posted: 2017
M G Alles
Drivers of the Use and Facilitators and Obstacles of the Evolution of Big data by the Audit Profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,844
RANK
125,376
5 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies