Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofessional Investor Judgments: Linking Dependent Measures to Constructs

The Accounting Review (2023). https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2021-0551

65 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021 Last revised: 13 Jul 2023

H. Scott Asay

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Jeffrey Hales

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Cory Hinds

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Kathy Rupar

Georgia Institute of Technology

Abstract

There is limited evidence on the construct validity of the dependent measures commonly used in the literature on nonprofessional investor judgments. In this paper, we first survey the literature to understand the types of dependent measures typically used by researchers. We then conduct factor analyses to uncover linkages between dependent measures and the constructs underlying these nonprofessional investor judgments. Our results suggest that, while the wide variety of dependent measures can appear on their face to represent many nuanced economic constructs, these measures capture three distinct factors. These factors relate to nonprofessional investors’ (1) expectations regarding future firm performance and value, (2) holistic perceptions of the firm, and (3) evaluations of the risk associated with investing in the firm. Next, we provide recommendations for selecting, analyzing, and reporting dependent measures in future research. Finally, we provide directions for future research to further our understanding of the judgments made by investors.

Keywords: investor judgments, construct validity, experimental design

Suggested Citation:

Asay, Hamilton Scott and Hales, Jeffrey and Hinds, Cory and Rupar, Kathy, Nonprofessional Investor Judgments: Linking Dependent Measures to Constructs. The Accounting Review (2023). https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2021-0551, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3910069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3910069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
175 References
S B Anderson , J L Brown , L E Hodder , P Hopkins
The effect of alternative accounting measurement bases on investors' assessments of managers' stewardship
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 46 , p. 100 - 114 Posted: 2015
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K M Rennekamp
Disclosure readability and the sensitivity of investors' valuation judgments to outside information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
H S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review Posted: 2021
H S Asay , J Hales
Disclaiming the future: Investigating the impact of cautionary disclaimers on investor judgments before and after experiencing economic loss
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 81 - 99 Posted: 2018
Load more
15 Citations
Ning Du , Tawei Wang , Hui Lin
To Correct or Not to Correct: Are Investors Able to Discern Fake Financial News?
Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 172 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Posted: 2022
Crossref
Nicolas Epelbaum
Investing in the crypto-asset environment: the effects of risk disclosures and the fear of missing out
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management Posted: 2025
Crossref
Shannon Garavaglia
What's in a Name? Investors' Reactions to Non‐GAAP Labels*†
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 897 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
628
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,963
RANK
97,293
15 Citations
175 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies