Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualitative Research Interviews Using Online Video Technology - Challenges and Opportunities

Meditari Accountancy Research, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-03-2021-1252

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

19 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

Muhammad Bilal Farooq

Auckland University of Technology

Matteo Molinari

University of Bergamo - University of Bergamo,; University of Roehampton

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Purpose: This study examines the methodological and method related challenges and opportunities arising from the use of video interviews in qualitative accounting research, focused on collecting contextual data and visual cues, enriching communication quality, and building and maintaining rapport with interviewees.

Design/methodology/approach: Prior literature and the authors’ experiences using video technologies for research, including conducting interviews, inform this research. This study utilises a transactional conceptual refinement of information richness theory (IRT) and channel expansion theory (CET) to critically analyse the challenges and opportunities of using video technology to conduct qualitative research interviews.

Findings: The ability, need for and significance of collecting contextual data depend on the researchers’ ontological and epistemological assumptions, and are therefore influenced by their research design choices. Video technology enables researchers to view research settings by video. In addition, while group/panel interviews have their advantages, it is often difficult to get everyone together in person, something video technology can potentially overcome. The feasibility and the quality of video interviews can be improved if both interview participants and reviewers are experienced with using video technology, as well as with judicious investment in good quality video technology and through testing and practice. We also discuss how rapport building with interviewees can be facilitated by overcoming video’s sense of disconnect and enhancing interviewees’ willingness to engage.

Originality/value: The study builds on the limited prior literature and considers the challenges and opportunities related to methodology and method when conducting video-based qualitative interviews in accounting research. Broadly, qualitative researchers will find the paper useful in considering the use of video interviews and in making research design choices appropriate for video interviews.

Keywords: Video interviews; Research interviews; Qualitative research interviews; Zoom;Skype; WhatsApp

Suggested Citation:

de Villiers, Charl and Farooq, Muhammad Bilal and Molinari, Matteo, Qualitative Research Interviews Using Online Video Technology - Challenges and Opportunities (2021). Meditari Accountancy Research, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-03-2021-1252, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3910755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
J Ash , G Adams-Hutcheson , R Longhurst
At least in person there would have been a cup of tea': interviewing via Skype , volume 49 , p. 148 - 155 Posted: 2015
N K Baym , M A Malden , News
Coronavirus: The world in lockdown in maps and charts Posted: 2010
L Back
Broken devices and new opportunities: Re-imagining the tools of qualitative research Posted: 2010
A Bryman
Social Research Methods Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
917
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,498
RANK
59,011
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies