Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Organizing Framework for Causes of Auditing Deficiencies

22 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021 Last revised: 22 Nov 2023

Christine J. Nolder

Suffolk University

Daniel Sunderland

Northeastern University (USA)

Date Written: November 17, 2023

Abstract

Using both a deductive and inductive approach, we develop a hierarchical taxonomy for classifying the underlying causes of auditing deficiencies around the world. First, we establish three categories of causes (i.e., proximal, distal, and root) as recommended by root cause analysis researchers in quality management. Second, we explain the relationships among the causes using the Heuristic-Systematic Model. And last, we support the inclusion of our causal categories by obtaining publicly available reports in practice that indicate the most commonly purported causes of auditing deficiencies. The framework is intended to be comprehensive and useful to practitioners, regulators, and academics as it establishes a common vocabulary for future investigations into the root causes of auditing deficiencies.

Keywords: Heuristic Systematic Model; auditing deficiencies; overconfidence; motivation; capacity; auditors' judgment and decision making

Suggested Citation:

Nolder, Christine J. and Sunderland, Daniel, An Organizing Framework for Causes of Auditing Deficiencies (November 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3911302 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3911302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA)
Practice Monitoring Program, 9 th Public Report Posted: 2015
I Ajzen , M Fishbein
Understanding attitudes and predicting social behavior, 1 st ed Posted: 1980
B Andersen , T Fagerhaug
Root cause analysis: simplified tools and techniques Posted: 2006
Audit Oversight Board Securities Commission Malaysia (AOBSCM)
Annual Inspection Report Findings and Insights Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,201
RANK
232,476
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies