Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Industry Classification Matter in IT Business Value Research?

46 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2021 Last revised: 29 Sep 2021

Duane B. Kennedy

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Byron Y. Song

Hong Kong Baptist University

Theophanis C. Stratopoulos

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 8, 2021

Abstract

Studies which examine the effect of IT on firm performance make the implicit assumption that the choice of industry classification (e.g., SIC instead of NAICS) and the level of aggregation (e.g., 2-digit SIC instead of 4-digit SIC) is unlikely to affect the results. Given that practically none of the studies in our literature review has tested the robustness of their results to an alternative industry classification method, we do not know whether this choice matters (i.e., we don’t know whether the evidence generated from this stream of research is robust). To answer this question, we replicated three studies (Bharadwaj 2000; Chae et al. 2014; Santhanam and Hartono 2003) and found that results are likely to differ if we change the classification method and/or the level of aggregation within a given industry classification method. We encourage IT researchers to replicate prior studies to assess the sensitivity of their results to such choices as well as encouraging future studies to consider implementing robustness checks. The need to consider such robustness checks spans all fields (e.g., accounting, strategic management, and marketing) that use statistical analysis which requires control for role of industry.

Keywords: Industry classification, IT business value, IT capability

JEL Classification: L1, L16, G3, M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kennedy, Duane B. and Song, Byron Y. and Stratopoulos, Theophanis C., Does Industry Classification Matter in IT Business Value Research? (September 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3919658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3919658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
J L Abernathy , B Beyer , J F Downes , E T Rapley
High-Quality Information Technology and Capital Investment Decisions
Journal of Information Systems , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2020
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S Ravindran
The New Productivity Paradox
Communications of the ACM , volume 46 , p. 91 - 94 Posted: 2003
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S Ravindran
Value Implications of Investments in Information Technology
Management Science , volume 52 , p. 1359 - 1376 Posted: 2006
S Aral , P Weill
IT Assets, Organizational Capabilities, and Firm Performance: How Resource Allocations and Organizational Differences Explain Performance Variation
Organization Science , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 763 - 780 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
368,155
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies