Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioral Economics of Accounting: A Review of Archival Research on Individual Decision Makers

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

112 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2021 Last revised: 9 Nov 2021

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Kelvin Yeung

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - College of Business

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 8, 2021

Abstract

This paper develops a unified framework to synthesize the growing stream of positive research on the role of individual decision makers in shaping observed accounting phenomena. This line of research recognizes two central ideas in behavioral economics. First, individual behavior depends not only on economic incentives and accessible information, but also on individual preferences, abilities, experiences, and other characteristics. Second, the constraints that structure human interactions encompass both formal institutions (e.g., rules, laws, constitutions) and informal institutions (e.g., norms, conventions, rituals). Our review covers a broad set of individuals that are of interest in accounting research: managers, directors, audit partners, analysts, standard setters, politicians, judges, journalists, loan officers, financial advisors, and investors. We aim to understand the systematic effects of individual characteristics on a wide spectrum of accounting phenomena including financial reporting, disclosure, tax planning, auditing, and corporate social responsibility. We highlight the importance of personal characteristics not only for an individual’s own behavior, but also for others’ perceptions. Our review mainly focuses on archival research in accounting and provides some thoughts about opportunities for archival empiricists going forward. We also, when feasible, highlight opportunities for future field, survey, and experimental research. A central takeaway from our review is that individual-level factors significantly improve our ability to explain and predict accounting phenomena beyond firm-, industry-, and market-level factors.

Keywords: Accounting, behavioral economics, individual decision makers, Homo economicus, Homo sapiens, informal institutions.

JEL Classification: M4, G2, G3, G4.

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Yeung, Kelvin and Zuo, Luo, Behavioral Economics of Accounting: A Review of Archival Research on Individual Decision Makers (November 8, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3923891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3923891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
521 References
A M Abdel-Meguid , J N Jennings , K Olsen , M T Soliman
The impact of the CEO's personal narcissism on non-GAAP earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
M A Abernethy , M S Wallis
Critique on the "manager effects" research and implications for management accounting research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2019
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D N Margolis
High wage workers and high wage firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J A Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: An empirical investigation
American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,458
RANK
39,976
37 Citations
521 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies