Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Does mandatory short selling disclosure improve market efficiency?

50 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2021 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

John C. Heater

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Ye Liu

Fudan University

Qin Tan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

Date Written: October 15, 2025

Abstract

Prior literature documents that short sale activity clusters around mandated short sale position disclosures. We investigate whether short position disclosure clustering is driven by fundamental-based trading or “bad” herding – two competing hypotheses with different capital market consequences. Consistent with “bad” herding, we find that cumulative abnormal stock returns after short position disclosures are lower for disclosure stocks relative to non-disclosure stocks in the short run but recover over time, resulting in a “V-shaped” price reversal. Also consistent with “bad” herding, return volatility increases for disclosure stocks relative to non-disclosure stocks. We explore the role of new information about firm fundamentals on short selling activities and find that the degree of short sale disclosure clustering is similar across the pre-earnings announcement, post-earnings announcement, and no-news periods. Furthermore, we find that regardless of whether the earnings news is good or bad, disclosure clustering remains similar, suggesting that fundamental information shocks are not a primary driver of clustered short selling activity. Overall, the evidence is consistent with mandatory short position disclosures inducing “bad” investor herding behavior, which leads to capital market distortions.

Keywords: Short sale, herding, disclosure, firm fundamentals, stock returns

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heater, John C. and Liu, Ye and Tan, Qin and Zhang, Frank,

Does mandatory short selling disclosure improve market efficiency?

(October 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3923046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3923046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Christopher Avery , Peter Zemsky
Multidimensional uncertainty and herd behavior in financial markets
American Economic Review , p. 724 - 748 Posted: 1998
M E Barth , E C So
Non-diversifiable volatility risk and risk premiums at earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 5 , p. 1579 - 1607 Posted: 2014
A Beber , M Pagano
Short-selling bans around the world: Evidence from the 2007-09 crisis
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 343 - 381 Posted: 2013
Messod Beneish , Charles Mc Daniel , D Craig Lee , Nichols
In short supply: Shortsellers and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 2-3 , p. 33 - 57 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
671
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,995
RANK
89,318
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies