Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Does the Market Know?

80 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2021 Last revised: 2 Oct 2025

Irina Luneva

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: December 11, 2023

Abstract

Investors in financial markets have some information about firms’ fundamental earnings and managers’

incentives to manage earnings reports. These two types of information affect earnings quality in

different ways (Fischer and Stocken, 2004). Researchers cannot observe all of the investors’ information

sources. I develop a structural approach that uses firms’ earnings reports and stock prices along

with analysts’ forecasts to measure how much information investors have about firms’ fundamentals and

managers’ misreporting incentives. I estimate the amount of information an average investor has about

a firm and the implied quality of earnings. I find that investors know substantially more about firms’

fundamentals than about managers’ misreporting incentives. Moreover, between 1.7 and 8.3 percent of

the variance in reported earnings is driven by reporting noise.

Keywords: Accounting quality, earnings management, fundamental information, incentives information, structural estimation

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Luneva, Irina, What Does the Market Know? (December 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3926288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3926288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
W S Albrecht , L L Lookabill , J C Mckeown
The time-series properties of annual earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 226 - 244 Posted: 1977
S Arif , E T De George
The Dark Side of Low Financial Reporting Frequency: Investors' Reliance on Alternative Sources of Earnings News and Excessive Information Spillovers
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 49 Posted: 2020
J Bae , G C Biddle , C W Park
Managerial learning from analyst feedback to voluntary capex guidance, investment efficiency, and firm performance
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 583 - 607 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,637
RANK
210,151
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies