Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

132 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 7 Jul 2022

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Delphine Samuels

University of Chicago -- Booth School of Business

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: May 14, 2022

Abstract

This paper reviews the empirical methods used in the accounting literature to draw causal inferences. Recent years have seen a burgeoning growth in the use of methods that seek to exploit as-if random variation in observational settings—i.e., “quasi-experiments.” We provide a synthesis of the major assumptions of these methods, discuss several practical considerations relevant to the application of these methods in the accounting literature, and provide a framework for thinking about whether and when quasi-experimental and non-experimental methods are well-suited for addressing causal questions of interest to accounting researchers. While there is growing interest in addressing causal questions within the literature, we caution against the idea that one should restrict attention to only those causal questions for which there are quasi-experiments. We offer a complementary approach for addressing causal questions that does not rely on the availability of a quasi-experiment, but rather relies on a combination of economic theory, developing and falsifying alternative explanations, triangulating results across multiple settings, measures, and research designs, and caveating results where appropriate.

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Kepler, John and Samuels, Delphine and Taylor, Daniel, Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments (May 14, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3935088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3935088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
J Angrist , G Imbens
Identification and estimation of local average treatment effects
Econometrica , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 467 - 475 Posted: 1994
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics Posted: 2008
J Angrist , J Pischke
The credibility revolution in empirical economics: How better research design is taking the con out of econometrics
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 24 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,428
RANK
10,693
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies