Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Meaning of "Accounting" In a Religious-Based Organization

Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Jannah, B.S; Triyuwono, I; Mulawarman, A.D; Hariadi, B. (2021). The Meaning of "Accounting" In a Religious-Based Organization,Acc. Fin. Review, 6(2), 78 – 83. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.2(1)

6 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Binti Shofiatul Jannah

Post-Graduate Department of Accounting, Faculty of Economics and Business, University of Brawijaya, Mayjend Haryono Street 165, 6515, Malang, Indonesia

Iwan Triyuwono

University of Brawijaya

Aji Dedi Mulawarman

University of Brawijaya

Bambang Hariadi

Department of Accounting, Faculty of Economics and Business, University of Brawijaya, Mayjend Haryono Street 165, 6515, Malang, Indonesia

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

Objective - Accounting has been defined as the art of recording since it is trapped at a technical level. However, accounting as a symbol have different meanings for different people depending on one's interests, goals, knowledge, and perspectives. The aim of this study was to better understand the meaning of accounting in religious organizations, especially in pesantren (Indonesian Islamic boarding schools).

Methodology/Technique - In the interpretive paradigm, this study uses Husserl's transcendental phenomenological theory. Data analysis begins with identifying noema (texture analysis), then obtaining noesis through bracketing (structural analysis). Furthermore, understanding the noema-noesis relationship results in deliberate analysis. Finally, the whole process of generating pure consciousness is called eidetic reduction.

Findings - Each informant has a different meaning to accounting depending on individual experience. Beyond materialism, the meaning of accounting is fascinating. According to the findings of the study, accounting has two meanings: first, accounting is ikhlas (sincere), and second, accounting is a discipline.

Novelty - Accounting will not be separated from theology and spirituality, especially accounting applied in religious organizations. Based on the experience of "I", accounting has a different meaning from conventional accounting.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Accounting; Interpretive; Pesantren; Transcendental Phenomenology.

JEL Classification: M41, M49.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Jannah, Binti Shofiatul and Triyuwono, Iwan and Mulawarman, Aji Dedi and Hariadi, Bambang, The Meaning of "Accounting" In a Religious-Based Organization (September 30, 2021). Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Jannah, B.S; Triyuwono, I; Mulawarman, A.D; Hariadi, B. (2021). The Meaning of "Accounting" In a Religious-Based Organization,Acc. Fin. Review, 6(2), 78 – 83. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.2(1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3940861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A R Abdul-Rahman , A Goddard
An interpretive inquiry of accounting practices in religious organisations
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 201 Posted: 1998
H Basri , A S Nabiha , M S A &majid
Accounting and accountability in religious organizations: An islamic contemporary scholars' perspective
Gadjah Mada International Journal of Business , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 230 Posted: 2016
N Baydoun , R Willett
Cultural relevance of western accounting systems to developing countries
Abacus , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1995
S Biduri , R A Rahayu , I Mukarromah
Implementation of PSAK No. 45 In the Preparation of Islamic Boarding School Financial Reports for the Creation of Transparency and Accountability. National Seminar and the 6th Call For Sharia Paper (SANCALL) Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
560
RANK
718,946
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies