Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Artificial Intelligence to Determine Contingent Legal Liabilities Provisions.

11 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021

Daniel Broby

Ulster University

Andrea Coulson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Viktor Dörfler

University of Strathclyde Business School; Széchenyi István University; University of Zagreb Business School

Date Written: June 19, 2021

Abstract

We suggest how Artificial Intelligence (AI) can help us make more accurate legal liability provisions under International Accounting Standards. International Financial Reporting Standards provide considerable guidance on how uncertain legal events should be recognized on the balance sheet. The process is subjective and, we argue, a more qualitative approach would be beneficial. We recommend the use of Artificial Intelligence to get a tentative outcome and a more reliable liability assessment for use in financial statements. This would provide a more true and fair view of the outcome of disputes. We discuss the theoretical and practical issues raised by using Artificial Intelligence to value provisions and propose a way of applying it to calculations of
provisions under IAS 37

Keywords: IAS 37, Contingent liabilities, Artificial Intelligence in accounting, legal provisions

JEL Classification: M40,M41,M42

Suggested Citation:

Broby, Daniel and Coulson, Andrea and Dörfler, Viktor, The Use of Artificial Intelligence to Determine Contingent Legal Liabilities Provisions. (June 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3945406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3945406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M J Abdolmohammadi
Decision support and expert systems in auditing: A review and research directions
Accounting and Business Research , volume 17 , issue 66 , p. 173 - 185 Posted: 1987
A A Baldwin , C E Brown , B S Trinkle
Opportunities for artificial intelligence development in the accounting domain: the case for auditing. Intelligent Systems in Accounting
Finance Management: International Journal , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 77 - 86 Posted: 2006
J Bertomeu , E Cheynel , E Floyd , W Pan
Using machine learning to detect misstatements
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2020
H P Brixi , A Schick
Government at risk: contingent liabilities and fiscal risk. The World Bank. Broby, D., 2021. Financial technology and the future of banking
Financial Innovation , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2002
Load more
2 Citations
Mohamed Karahamo , Feras Zen Alden , MHD Nour Hindia , Ali Yusny Daud
AI Technology in IT Service Desk (ITSD)
, p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Daniel Broby , Andrea Coulson , Viktor Dörfler
The Use of Artificial Intelligence to Determine Contingent Legal Liabilities Provisions.
11 Pages · Posted: 25 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,123
RANK
330,062
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies