Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Principal Component Analysis and Factor Analysis in Accounting Research

81 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2021 Last revised: 14 Feb 2022

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Chuong Do

University of Nevada, Reno

Fellipe G. Raymundo

University of Arkansas, Sam M. Walton College of Business, William Dillard Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 11, 2022

Abstract

Principal component analysis (PCA) and factor analysis (FA) are variable reduction techniques used to represent a set of observed variables in terms of a smaller number of variables. While PCA and FA are similar along several dimensions (e.g., extraction of common components/factors), researchers often fail to recognize that these techniques achieve different goals and can produce significantly different results. We conduct a comprehensive review of the use of PCA and FA in accounting research. We offer guidelines on programming PCA and FA in SAS/Stata and emphasize the importance of implementation techniques as well as the disclosure choices made when utilizing these methodologies. Furthermore, we present intuitive, practical examples highlighting the differences between the techniques and provide suggestions for researchers considering the use of these procedures. Finally, based on our review, we provide recommendations, observations, notes, and citations to the literature, regarding the implementation of PCA and FA in accounting.

Keywords: Factor analysis, principal component analysis, data reduction techniques, SAS, Stata

JEL Classification: C38, C88, M41

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Do, Chuong and Gomes Raymundo, Fellipe, Principal Component Analysis and Factor Analysis in Accounting Research (February 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3948708 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3948708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
A Alin
Multicollinearity. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Computational Statistics , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 370 - 374 Posted: 2010
W A Arrindell , J Van Der Ende
An empirical test of the utility of the observations-tovariables ratio in factor and component analysis
Applied Psychological Measurement , volume 9 , p. 165 - 178 Posted: 1985
L S Bamber , Y S Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecasts: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,018
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,033
RANK
51,083
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies