Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Noise and Deficiency of the Implied Cost of Capital as an Expected Return Proxy

Posted: 3 Nov 2021 Last revised: 15 Mar 2022

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Jing Fang

University of Central Arkansas

Date Written: October 28, 2021

Abstract

Because stock price generally deviates from the intrinsic value, stock price is a noisy indicator of the intrinsic value. As an expected return proxy, the implied cost of capital (ICC)—the internal rate of return that equates the noisy stock price to discounted expected future dividends—thus includes a mispricing-driven component. The mispricing-driven component is positive and increases with the degree of undervaluation for undervalued firms and is negative and decreases with the degree of overvaluation for overvalued firms. Our findings suggest that the mispricing-driven component plays a dominant role. Due to the dominant role of the mispricing-driven component, ICC is a deficient expected return proxy for examining the effect of a factor on expected return. Moreover, existing methods do not seem able to address this deficiency.

Keywords: Implied cost of capital, Expected return, Noise, Bias

JEL Classification: C13, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Fang, Jing, Noise and Deficiency of the Implied Cost of Capital as an Expected Return Proxy (October 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951890
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
529
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies