Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differential Communication and Local Information Advantage: Revelations from Translation Differences

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 23 May 2023

Tina Lang

California State University, East Bay

Lorien Stice-Lawrence

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Yu Ting Forester Wong

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

T.J. Wong

University of Sothern California

Date Written: July 06, 2025

Abstract

We develop an empirical proxy for companies’ differential communication to local and foreign investors using translation differences in public disclosure. We use a field experiment to validate that our proxy is associated with differences in the information firms provide in response to private inquiries from local and foreign investors, and document that differential communication is associated with increases in information asymmetry. It is also linked to decreases in the relative information quality of foreign analysts, even in cases when foreign demand for information is high and communication costs are low. These and a variety of supporting tests lead us to conclude that firms use differential communication intentionally because of in-group favoritism, and when catering to different investor groups in order to maximize stock price. This study highlights the role of differential communication as one driver of local information advantage.

Keywords: Differential Communication, Local Information Advantage, Translation Differences, Financial Disclosure, Information Asymmetry, Textual Analysis, Globalization

JEL Classification: G15, G14, M40, M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Tina and Stice-Lawrence, Lorien and Wong, Yu Ting Forester and Wong, T.J., Differential Communication and Local Information Advantage: Revelations from Translation Differences (July 06, 2025). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3956105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3956105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Y Amihud , J K Hassan , S
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
The Journal of Business Communication , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 394 - 413 Posted: 1973
V M Covrig , M L Defond , M Hung
Home bias, foreign mutual fund holdings, and the voluntary adoption of international accounting standards
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 70 Posted: 2007
H Daske , L Hail , C Leuz , R Verdi
Mandatory IFRS reporting around the world: Early evidence on the economic consequences
Journal of accounting research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 1085 - 1142 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
718
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,069
RANK
81,898
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies