Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accountants' Professional Competences: Requirements In the Czech Republic and Poland. The Normative Approach and Business Practice

Acta Universitatis Agriculturae et Silviculturae Mendelianae Brunensis, 2021, 69, 379-393 | DOI: 10.11118/actaun.2021.035

16 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021 Last revised: 15 Dec 2021

Bohumil Král

Prague University of Economics and Business

Grzegorz Mikołajewicz

Poznań University of Economics and Business

Jarosław Nowicki

Poznań University of Economics and Business

Libuše Šoljaková

Prague University of Economics and Business

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to ascertain, from the normative (“should be” – academic experts) and business practice (“is” – management accountants) perspective, whether and to what extent management accountants' competence requirements differ between the Czech Republic and Poland and if so, to indicate the reasons for such differences. Both groups of respondents, as well as both countries have they own specific characteristics, but also share some common qualities. All respondents emphasize an important role that management accountants play in modern companies and suggest the necessity of developing standards and requirements for this position. The study is unique, since it compares different perspectives of management accountants' professional competences expected by academic and business practice in two neighbouring countries (the Czech Republic and Poland) with their own specific institutional environment.

Keywords: management accountant, controller, professional competence, education, skills, experience, quality assurance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Král, Bohumil and Mikołajewicz, Grzegorz and Nowicki, Jarosław and Šoljaková, Libuše, Management Accountants' Professional Competences: Requirements In the Czech Republic and Poland. The Normative Approach and Business Practice (July 1, 2021). Acta Universitatis Agriculturae et Silviculturae Mendelianae Brunensis, 2021, 69, 379-393 | DOI: 10.11118/actaun.2021.035, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3960614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
F Acito , V Khatri
ASSOCIATION OF CHARTERED CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANTS & BEIJING NATIONAL ACCOUNTING INSTITUTES. 2014. Investigation Report: Management Accounting Practice in Chinese Firms. Association of Chartered Certified Accountants & Beijing National Accounting Institutes , volume 57 , p. 565 - 570 Posted: 2014
A Bieńkowska , Z Kral , A Zabłocka-Kluczka
Organizational solutions of controlling in network organizations [in Polish: Rozwiązania organizacyjne controllingu w organizacjach sieciowych , volume 344 , p. 53 - 69 Posted: 2014
J Burns , G Baldvinsdottir
An institutional perspective of accountants' new roles: The interplay of contradictions and praxis
European Accounting Review , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 725 - 757 Posted: 2005
J Burns , H Yazdifar
Improving Decision Making in Organizations: The Opportunity to Reinvent Finance Business Partners
Management Accounting Tools for Today and Tomorrow , volume 30 , p. 33 - 35 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
419
RANK
697,608
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies