Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Accounting Standards and the Performance of Quantitative Investors

Forthcoming at the Journal of Accounting and Economics

92 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021 Last revised: 26 Dec 2023

Travis Dyer

Brigham Young University

Nicholas Guest

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Elisha Yu

CUNY Baruch College

Date Written: August 30, 2024

Abstract

We examine quantitative investors’ ability to navigate a common and occasionally material change to the financial data generating process: new accounting standards. Returns of quantitative mutual funds temporarily decrease relative to funds that rely more heavily on human discretion following the implementation of a few standards that significantly change key financial statement variables; however, other standards do not appear to have a differential effect. Our result is stronger for quantitative funds using more accounting terminology in their prospectuses and using value strategies, which leverage accounting signals. Excess portfolio turnover following the implementation of accounting standards appears to be a driving factor of the quant underperformance. Additional evidence connects the fund-level results to the specific stocks that were affected by the accounting standards. Overall, our results suggest quant funds are generally proficient at adapting to accounting changes, although material changes occasionally put them at a temporary disadvantage relative to discretionary investors.

Suggested Citation:

Dyer, Travis and Guest, Nicholas and Yu, Elisha, New Accounting Standards and the Performance of Quantitative Investors (August 30, 2024). Forthcoming at the Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3969442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
S Abis
Man vs. Machine: Quantitative and Discretionary Equity Management Posted: 2022
P Ahmed , S Nanda
Performance of Enhanced Index and Quantitative Equity Funds
The Financial Review , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 459 - 479 Posted: 2005
P Akey , A Robertson , M Simutin
Closet Active Management of Passive Funds Posted: 2021
E Amir , Y Guan , D Oswald
The Effect of Pension Accounting on Corporate Pension Asset Allocation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
918
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,371
RANK
58,911
1 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies