Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cluster Analysis of Share Price: How Firm Characteristics Relate to Accounting Metrics

Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets & Institutions, 11(4), 8–25, 2021

18 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Mfon Akpan

Northeastern State University - College of Business & Technology

Guneet Dhillon

Dalhousie University

Kim Trottier

HEC Montreal

Date Written: June 9, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to improve our understanding of the relationship between share price and accounting information. Much of the literature utilizes the earnings number to reflect firm value. However, the revenue number seems more relevant for high tech firms (Xu, Cai, & Leung, 2007), and cash flow figures are more informative for internet companies (Romanova, Helms, & Takeda, 2012). We build on this notion that share price may map out to different accounting numbers for different firms. We collect 629 accounting metrics for 3,365 firms in the U.S. and estimate their correlation with the firms’ share price. We analyze these correlations and find that many firms exhibit a low correlation between share price and earnings. Other accounting numbers are important for these firms, including book value of net assets, retained earnings, stock options, gain or loss items, special or non recurring items, and dividend rates. We are curious to learn what causes firms to anchor onto different metrics, therefore perform a cluster analysis to group similar firms together along three key accounting metrics. We examine the composition of each cluster and find that capital structure, dividend patterns, the persistence of operations, age, and industry can influence which accounting number is correlated with firm value. We encourage other researchers to continue this exploration as there are many interesting questions to answer.

Keywords: Share Price, Earnings, Financial Accounting, EPS, Cluster Analysis, Accounting Numbers, Industry, Text Mining

JEL Classification: C8, G120, M41

Suggested Citation:

Akpan, Mfon and Dhillon, Guneet and Trottier, Kim, Cluster Analysis of Share Price: How Firm Characteristics Relate to Accounting Metrics (June 9, 2021). Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets & Institutions, 11(4), 8–25, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3974687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
G Acar , A Coskun
A comparison of models for predicting discretionary accruals: A cross-country analysis
The Journal of Asian Finance , volume 7 , issue 9 , p. 315 - 328 Posted: 2020
S Aranganayagi , K Thangavel
Clustering categorical data using silhouette coefficient as a relocating measure
Proceedings of the International conference on computational intelligence and multimedia applications (ICCIMA 2007) , volume 2 , p. 13 - 17 Posted: 2007
P Bailey , P J Brown , M Potter , P A Wells
A practical comparison of firm valuation models: Cash flow, dividend and income
JASSA: The Finsia Journal of Applied Finance , volume 2 , p. 22 - 28 Posted: 2008
B.-H Bao , D.-H Bao
Income smoothing, earnings quality and firm valuation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , p. 1525 - 1557 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
754
RANK
411,549
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies