Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical implications of incorrect special item tax rate assumptions

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

Posted: 6 Dec 2021

William M. Cready

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Thomas J. Lopez

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Craig A. Sisneros

Oklahoma State University

Shane Stinson

University of Alabama

Date Written: November 30, 2021

Abstract

The use of assumed tax rates to adjust special items (e.g., restructuring charges, asset writedowns, etc.) is common in empirical accounting research, as these items are reported pre-tax and are often used in research designs that include after-tax earnings. This study aims to explore the potential empirical consequences of assuming an incorrect tax rate in adjusting special items. We focus our investigation on special items, given both their prevalence in the literature as well as the wide variation in tax rate assumptions from these studies. Our investigation shows that the tax rate assumed can be critical to the interpretation of results. Importantly, our evidence suggests extreme tax rate assumptions, in particular the highest statutory rate, are especially problematic and yield dramatically biased estimates. Our review of the tax consequences of special items suggests that, in almost all circumstances, the marginal tax rate is the theoretically correct rate to apply to these items when adjusting for tax. Consistent with this view, our empirical evidence, with a limited exception, suggests that marginal tax rates represent the best estimate of the true tax rate. By providing empirical evidence on the potential empirical consequences of these varied tax rate assumptions, we offer a guide for future researchers on the importance of this critical design choice.

Keywords: Special items; nonrecurring items; assumed tax rates; marginal tax rates

JEL Classification: M40, M41, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Cready, William M. and Lopez, Thomas J. and Sisneros, Craig A. and Stinson, Shane, Empirical implications of incorrect special item tax rate assumptions (November 30, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3974943
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies