Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Response to “Re-Examining the Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on IPO Underpricing” by Byard, Darrough, and Suh (2021)

6 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: December 2, 2021

Abstract

Hong, Hung, and Lobo (2014, HHL) document a decrease in IPO underpricing and an increase in the relative proceeds from foreign markets following the 2005 mandatory IFRS adoption. In a study that re-examines the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on IPO underpricing, Byard, Darrough, and Suh (2021, BDS) assert that IFRS adoption is not associated with IPO underpricing. However, we find that BDS incorrectly claim that they obtain similar results in their replication of HHL. Whereas HHL document a 38-82% reduction in IPO underpricing following IFRS adoption, BDS’s “replication” shows a 345-927% reduction, which casts serious doubt on the validity of their analysis. To address the concern that the IFRS mandate applies only to firms trading on EU-regulated markets, not exchange-regulated markets, we perform additional tests using a new dataset from the European Securities and Markets Authority. We find that HHL’s results are generally robust to excluding IPOs registered in exchange-regulated markets. Finally, we contend that BDS mischaracterize measurement errors in the IFRS literature, which arise from data limitations, as data errors. Our reply highlights the importance of fair representation of prior literature.

Keywords: Initial public offerings, International Financial Reporting Standards

JEL Classification: G41, G48

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Hyun A. and Hung, Mingyi and Lobo, Gerald J., Response to “Re-Examining the Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on IPO Underpricing” by Byard, Darrough, and Suh (2021) (December 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976558 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3976558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
D Byard , M N Darrough , J Suh
The impact of International Financial Reporting Standards on comparability: A test using IPO underpricing. Working paper. Baruch College Posted: 2015
D Byard , M N Darrough , J Suh
Re-examining the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on IPO underpricing
Review of Accounting Studies forthcoming Posted: 2021
H Hong , M Hung , G Lobo
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on IPOs in global capital markets
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 1365 - 1397 Posted: 2014
G Pownall , M Wieczynska
Deviations from the mandatory adoption of IFRS in the European Union: Implementation, enforcement, incentives, and compliance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 1029 - 1066 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,199
RANK
384,900
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies