Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Specification of the Market-Accounting Relation

35 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021

Martien Jan Peter Lubberink

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Roger J. Willett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

We argue that log-linear models, using elasticities to measure response coefficients in regression models of the market-accounting relation, are well specified and provide precise, readily interpreted and valid estimates of the relation between market and accounting values. Using this approach we show that fundamental financial statement data is sufficient, with little or no extra data, to explain firm market value. We illustrate the approach by discussing the evidence for dividend irrelevancy, the relationship of the market to book ratio with growth and its uncertainty, and the existence of abandonment options. Our method of estimating parameters in the market-accounting relation facilitates replication. We use all active Compustat firms between 1971-2020, without deletion or treatment of outliers. Our results demonstrate the utility of using log-linear models for capital market research in accounting

Keywords: Fundamentals, Log-Linear Models, Value Relevance

JEL Classification: C10, C46, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lubberink, Martien Jan Peter and Willett, Roger J., Specification of the Market-Accounting Relation (December 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3976635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Aczél
Lectures on Functional Equations and Their Applications
Mathematics in Science and Engineering Posted: 1966
J Aitchison , J A C Brown
The Lognormal Distribution with Special Reference to Its Uses in Economics Posted: 1957
Aledo Martínez , J García Lara , J M González Pérez , M T Grambovas , C A
An empirical assessment of proposed solutions for resolving scale problems in value relevance accounting research
Accounting & Finance , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 3905 - 3933 Posted: 2020
A Ali , P Zarowin
Permanent versus transitory components of annual earnings and estimation error in earnings response coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2-3 , p. 249 - 264 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
732
RANK
580,030
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies