Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Cost Structure Always Indicative of Operating Risk?

21 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2022

Gianluca Delfino

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: December 3, 2021

Abstract

Various textbooks in management accounting associate the concept of degree of operating leverage (DOL) to the ratio of fixed costs and variable costs—an index referred to as the cost structure of a firm. This view of operating leverage implies that, if two firms have different sales volumes and operating costs, the one with a higher proportion of fixed-to-variable costs is surely riskier than the other. Moreover, it also suggests that firms that change their cost structure (e.g., by swapping fixed costs to variable costs) are always affecting the volatility of their earnings—hence, their operating risk. The aim of this work is to discuss the factors that determine operating leverage and to analytically and empirically show that the cost structure is not necessarily correlated with operating risk. In doing so, I compare the methods used by extant research to estimate DOL. Using simulation analysis, I find that the method that proxies DOL through the cost structure is the least accurate.

Keywords: cost structure, degree of operating leverage, operating risk, simulation analysis

Suggested Citation:

Delfino, Gianluca, Is the Cost Structure Always Indicative of Operating Risk? (December 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3977082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3977082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
D Aboody , S Levi , D Weiss
Managerial incentives, options, and cost-structure choices
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 422 - 451 Posted: 2018
R Balakrishnan , K Sivaramakrishnan , G Sprinkle
Managerial Accounting Posted: 2013
J Berk , P Demarzo
Corporate Finance Posted: 2014
A Bhimani , C T Hongren , S M Datar , G Foster
Management and Cost Accounting Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,128
RANK
321,382
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies