Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Measure of Similarity in Textual Analysis: Vector Similarity Metric versus Cosine Similarity Metric

Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, forthcoming, 2022.

31 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2022 Last revised: 13 Apr 2022

Rajendra P. Srivastava

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Date Written: March 6, 2022

Abstract

This paper proposes a new similarity metric, Vector Similarity Metric (VSM), which is as simple as the popular Cosine Similarity Metric (CSM). The CSM has a major deficiency. It yields the same value, irrespective of how different the two vectors are in their sizes so long as the angle between them is the same. This deficiency remains intact even when Natural Language Processing is used to associate semantic meanings to the words/phrases and when the term frequency is modified using Inverse Document Frequency. This deficiency becomes a serious concern when one is comparing the risk profile of one company with the risk profile of another company or investigating the changes in the risk profile of a company from one year to another. The VSM is based on the difference of the two vectors. The paper demonstrates the superiority of VSM over CSM analytically and through real-world examples.

Keywords: Similarity Metric, Textual Analysis, Cosine Similarity, Vector Similarity, Similarity

JEL Classification: K, M

Suggested Citation:

Srivastava, Rajendra Prasad, A New Measure of Similarity in Textual Analysis: Vector Similarity Metric versus Cosine Similarity Metric (March 6, 2022). Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, forthcoming, 2022., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3978105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3978105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J Bai , W Jin , M Serfling
Management Practices and Mergers and Acquisitions
Management Science, forthcoming , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
S Brown , W R Knechel
Auditor-Client Compatibility and Audit Firm Selection
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 725 - 775 Posted: 2016-06
S Brown , J W Tucker
Large-Sample Evidence on Firms' Year-over-Year MD&A Modifications
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 309 - 346 Posted: 2011-05
T Brück , M Pouly
Text similarity estimation based on word embeddings and matrix norms for targeted marketing
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies , volume 1 , p. 1827 - 1836 Posted: 2019-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
430
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,357
RANK
155,149
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies