Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors’ Quantitative Disclosure: Target Prices by Short Sellers

HEC Paris Research Paper No ACC-2021-1445

58 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021 Last revised: 28 Dec 2023

Alexandre Madelaine

Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Wuyang Zhao

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: December 27, 2023

Abstract

We study a rising phenomenon whereby activist short sellers, who disclose their short theses to circumvent limits to arbitrage, provide quantitative disclosures in the form of target prices. After establishing that those target prices are informative in predicting future returns, we argue that short sellers’ disclosure of target prices reflects a tradeoff between three factors: the speed of price adjustment, the exacerbation of certain risks, and reputation considerations. We find supporting evidence for all three factors—target price disclosures are positively associated with price adjustment speed, the retaliation and challenges from shareholders and analysts, and proxies of short sellers’ information precision, which contributes to their reputation. We further argue and find evidence that the salience and quantitative nature of target prices contribute to the accelerated price adjustment by reducing investors’ processing costs. Taken together, our study sheds light on the economic tradeoffs arising when investors decide to disclose quantitative information.

Keywords: target price; short sellers; short-selling attacks; information quality; price adjustment; processing costs; retail investors

JEL Classification: G14; G30; G32; M41

Suggested Citation:

Madelaine, Alexandre and Paugam, Luc and Stolowy, Hervé and Zhao, Wuyang, Investors’ Quantitative Disclosure: Target Prices by Short Sellers (December 27, 2023). HEC Paris Research Paper No ACC-2021-1445 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3978136 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3978136
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
B H Ahn , R Bushman , P N Patatoukas
Activist fraud campaign disclosures: Private information revelation or market manipulation Posted: 2023
F Allen , M D Haas , E Nowak , A Tengulov
Market efficiency and limits to arbitrage: Evidence from the volkswagen short squeeze
J. Finan. Econ , volume 142 , p. 166 - 194 Posted: 2021
I Appel , V Fos
Short campaigns by hedge funds Posted: 2019
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
J. Finan. Econ , volume 75 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,953
RANK
134,833
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies