Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Projection Methods via Neural Networks for Continuous-Time Models

49 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2022

Maxime Sauzet

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: December 22, 2021

Abstract

I extend traditional projection methods by using neural networks as a function approximator to solve continuous-time models. The method is well-suited for high-dimensional settings such as those that arise in the presence of many assets, and can capture the strong non-linearities that occur for instance when agents face constraints. It is designed to accommodate multiple unknown functions, e.g. multiple value functions, so that it is set to tackle economies with several agents and incomplete markets. The technical apparatus that comes with neural networks (e.g., automatic differentiation, just-in-time compiling) can also be used in a hybrid fashion by combining it with more standard polynomials, in order to make use of their good convergence properties while speeding up the resolution and increasing the dimensionality.

Keywords: Asset Pricing, Macro-Finance, Heterogeneous Agents, Global Methods, Projection Approaches, Neural Networks, High-Dimensional Settings

JEL Classification: C0, E0, G0

Suggested Citation:

Sauzet, Maxime, Projection Methods via Neural Networks for Continuous-Time Models (December 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3981838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3981838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Yves Achdou , Jiequn Han , Jean-Michel Lasry , Pierre-Louis Lions , Benjamin Moll
Income and Wealth Distribution in Macroeconomics: A Continuous-Time Approach
The Review of Economic Studies rdab Posted: 2021
Sehyoun Ahn , Greg Kaplan , Benjamin Moll , Thomas Winberry , Christian Wolf
When inequality matters for macro and macro matters for inequality
NBER Macroeconomics Annual , volume 32 , p. 1 - 75 Posted: 2018
Francis Bach
Breaking the curse of dimensionality with convex neural networks
Journal of Machine Learning Research , volume 18 , p. 1 - 53 Posted: 2017
A R Barron
Universal approximation bounds for superpositions of a sigmoidal function
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory , volume 39 , p. 930 - 945 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
526
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
121,963
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies