Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Measurement System Diversity and Product Innovation: Evidence from Longitudinal Survey Data

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2022 Last revised: 16 Aug 2023

Clara Xiaoling Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Jeremy B. Lill

University of Kansas

Lorenzo Lucianetti

University of Chieti and Pescara

Date Written: June 19, 2023

Abstract

We examine (1) the association between performance measurement system (PMS) diversity and product innovation; and (2) the interdependence between PMS diversity and PMS use (diagnostic or interactive) for product innovation. We expect the association between PMS diversity and product innovation to depend on the trade-off between PMS diversity’s potential benefits of meeting enhanced information needs and potential costs of information overload. Further, we apply knowledge recombination theory of innovation, which suggests that innovation requires access to diverse information and integration efficiency. Thus, we expect PMS diversity and PMS use to be complementary in supporting product innovation. We test our predictions using survey data collected over two waves. We find a positive association between PMS diversity and product innovation. We test for bidirectional effects, and find that the direction of the association is from PMS diversity to innovation. Furthermore, we find strong support for the complementarity between PMS diversity and PMS use (diagnostic or interactive) in supporting product innovation. Lastly, we document that environmental uncertainty moderates these effects.

Keywords: Performance measurement system; product innovation; performance measurement diversity; diagnostic controls; interactive controls; interdependence; complementarity

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Clara Xiaoling and Lill, Jeremy B. and Lucianetti, Lorenzo, Performance Measurement System Diversity and Product Innovation: Evidence from Longitudinal Survey Data (June 19, 2023). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3992665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3992665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M A Abernethy , H C Dekker , A K D Schulz
Are employee selection and incentive contracts complements or substitutes
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 633 - 668 Posted: 2015
P S Adler , C X Chen
Combining creativity and control: Understanding individual motivation in large-scale collaborative creativity
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 63 - 85 Posted: 2011
H Ahn
Applying the balanced scorecard concept: an experience report
Long range planning , volume 34 , p. 441 - 461 Posted: 2001
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Accounting for flexibility and efficiency: A field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
RANK
405,251
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies