Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Information Flow and Management Guidance

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Dane M. Christensen

University of Oregon

Arthur Morris

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Beverly R. Walther

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Laura Wellman

Pennsylvania State University; Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting; Penn State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 28, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether politically connected firms play a role in disseminating political information via their management guidance. Using campaign financing activity or the presence of a government affairs office to proxy for firms’ access to political information, we find that politically connected firms are more likely to issue management guidance, and their guidance is more likely to discuss government policies. Further, these relations are attenuated for firms facing high proprietary costs of disclosure. To provide evidence on the source of the political information disclosed through guidance, we examine the timing of when guidance is issued. We find that politically connected firms are more likely to issue guidance and change their government policy–related disclosures prior to the public revelation of government policy decisions. Collectively, these findings suggest that the privileged information firms obtain through their political connections is shared with investors through voluntary disclosures.

Keywords: Political connections, Information flow, Management forecasts, Corporate disclosure

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G38, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Dane M. and Morris, Arthur and Walther, Beverly R. and Wellman, Laura, Political Information Flow and Management Guidance (December 28, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3995578
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
782
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies