Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Out-of-Sample Forecast Evaluation under Stationarity

CERGE-EI Working Paper Series No. 712

44 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2021

Filip Staněk

Charles University in Prague - CERGE-EI, a joint workplace of Charles University and the Economics Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

It is common practice to split time-series into in-sample and pseudo out-of-sample segments and to estimate the out-of-sample loss of a given statistical model by evaluating forecasting performance over the pseudo out-of-sample segment. We propose an alternative estimator of the out-of-sample loss which, contrary to conventional wisdom, utilizes both measured in-sample and out-of-sample performance via a carefully constructed system of affine weights. We prove that, provided that the time-series is stationary, the proposed estimator is the best linear unbiased estimator of the out-of-sample loss and outperforms the conventional estimator in terms of sampling variance. Applying the optimal estimator to Diebold-Mariano type tests of predictive ability leads to a substantial power gain without worsening finite sample level distortions. An extensive evaluation on real world time-series from the M4 forecasting competition confirms the superiority of the proposed estimator and also demonstrates a substantial robustness to the violation of the underlying assumption of stationarity.

Keywords: Loss Estimation, Forecast Evaluation, Cross-Validation, Model Selection

JEL Classification: C22, C52, C53

Suggested Citation:

Staněk, Filip, Optimal Out-of-Sample Forecast Evaluation under Stationarity (December 1, 2021). CERGE-EI Working Paper Series No. 712, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3996166 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3996166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
H Akaike , E Parzen , K Tanabe , G Kitagawa
Information Theory and an Extension of the Maximum Likelihood Principle
Selected Papers of Hirotugu Akaike , p. 199 - 213 Posted: 1998
S Arlot , A Celisse
A survey of cross-validation procedures for model selection
Statistics surveys , volume 4 , p. 40 - 79 Posted: 2010
C Bergmeir , J M Benítez
On the use of cross-validation for time series predictor evaluation
Information Sciences , volume 191 , p. 192 - 213 Posted: 2012
C Bergmeir , M Costantini , J M Benítez
On the usefulness of cross-validation for directional forecast evaluation
Computational Statistics & Data Analysis , volume 76 , p. 132 - 143 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
922
RANK
601,090
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies