Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation Devices and the Dynamic Legitimacy-Performativity Nexus: The Case of PEP in the English Legal Profession

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 91, No. 101224, 2021

60 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2022

James Faulconbridge

Lancaster University

Daniel Muzio

University of York - The York Management School

Date Written: January 3, 2022

Abstract

Existing studies have developed increasingly sophisticated accounts of the performative agency of valuation devices and their effects on markets and organizations. In particular, research has focused on the work of different actors to legitimize valuation devices and ensure their adoption, which then leads to performativity. This paper extends work on the legitimacy and performativity of valuation devices by developing a dynamic, non-linear theorization of the boundary conditions of performativity and the feedbacks that result in changes in performativity over time. We ask: How do evolutions in a valuation device’s legitimacy relate to its performativity? Our analysis is based on a longitudinal study of the profits per equity partner (PEP) metric which between 1995 and 2013 became established as a key valuation device for English law firms. Through this case we draw attention to the dynamic legitimacy-performativity nexus. We show how the waxing and waning of different forms of legitimacy, in line with the dynamics of the broader institutional environment, affect the performativity of a particular valuation device. We also reveal a performativity paradox. The more a device gains legitimacy the more it becomes influential and exercises performative effects. The more this happens, the more the risk that tensions, contradictions and challenges will arise and begin to undermine the valuation device’s legitimacy and consequently its performativity. Consequently, we contribute to better theorizing the dynamic links between legitimacy, performativity and counter-performativity.

Keywords: Law firms, accounting, valuation, ranking

JEL Classification: L84

Suggested Citation:

Faulconbridge, James and Muzio, Daniel, Valuation Devices and the Dynamic Legitimacy-Performativity Nexus: The Case of PEP in the English Legal Profession (January 3, 2022). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 91, No. 101224, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3999737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
R L Abel
The legal profession in Posted: 1988
P Andon , C Free , P Sivabalan
The legitimacy of new assurance providers: Making the cap fit Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 39 , p. 75 - 96 Posted: 2014
H E Aldrich , C M Fiol
Fools rush in? The institutional context of industry creation , volume 19 , p. 645 - 670 Posted: 1994
S Ackroyd , D Muzio
The reconstructed professional firm explaining change in English legal practices
Organization Studies , volume 48 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
385
RANK
856,579
1 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies