Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Asset Pricing with Missing Data

41 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022 Last revised: 3 May 2024

Heiner Beckmeyer

University of Münster

Timo Wiedemann

University of Münster - Finance Center Münster

Date Written: January 7, 2022

Abstract

What is the impact of missing information in empirical asset pricing? To seek an answer to this question, we first propose an overarching machine learning method that accurately imputes missing firm characteristics using the characteristic's own past, information about other characteristics and their temporal evolution. We then document the impact of adequately accounting for missing information on questions in asset pricing in three ways: first, we show that factor premia obtained from simple portfolio sorts are likely lower than previously thought; second, acknowledging that the information density differs between firms allows for a more accurate description of the risk-return trade-off across stocks; third, we confirm that simple imputation techniques work as well as sophisticated methods when used for machine learned return predictability. We argue that the complexity of the methods results in their ability to handle amounts of missing information that far exceed what we see empirically.

Keywords: Missing Data, Machine Learning, IPCA, Return Prediction, Big Data

JEL Classification: G10, G12, G14, C14, C55

Suggested Citation:

Beckmeyer, Heiner and Wiedemann, Timo, Empirical Asset Pricing with Missing Data (January 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4003455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
781
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,977
RANK
73,417
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies