Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Weather on Firm Performance, Analyst Forecasts, and Stock Prices

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

65 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2022 Last revised: 13 Jan 2025

Marcus Kirk

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Han Stice

George Mason University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 12, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the real effects of weather on firm performance, using temperature as our proxy for weather. The relation between temperature and performance depends on season, industry, geographic location, and is often firm-specific. Therefore, to test this relation we adapt a measure of firm-quarter-specific weather sensitivity to calculate the predicted effect of weather on quarterly firm sales (Weather Impact). We first document that future quarterly sales performance is partially predicted by our measure. We then show that our measure is associated with both analyst forecast accuracy and announcement period abnormal returns. Overall, our results suggest that market participants do not fully incorporate the predictable real effects of weather into their expectations of firm performance.

Keywords: Weather; Climate Change; Environmental Economics; Sales

JEL Classification: M41, F64, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Kirk, Marcus and Stice, Derrald and Stice, Han, The Real Effects of Weather on Firm Performance, Analyst Forecasts, and Stock Prices (January 12, 2022). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4007090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4007090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,078
RANK
106,324
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies