Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain in accounting research: current trends and emerging topics

Garanina, T., Ranta, M., & Dumay, J. (2021). Blockchain in accounting research: current trends and emerging topics. Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal. Ahead of print. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-10-2020-4991

36 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2022

Tatiana King

University of Vaasa; Vaasan yliopisto (University of Vaasa)

Mikko Ranta

University of Vaasa - Department of Accounting and Finance

John Dumay

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: September 13, 2021

Abstract

Purpose
This paper provides a structured literature review of blockchain in accounting. We identify current trends, analyse and critique the key topics of research, and discuss the future of this nascent field of inquiry.

Design
Our analysis combined a structured literature review with citation analysis, topic modelling using a machine learning approach, and a manual review of selected articles. The corpus comprised 153 academic papers from two ranked journal lists, the Association of Business Schools (ABS) and the Australian Business Deans Council (ABDC), and from the Social Science Research Network (SSRN). From this, we analysed and critiqued the current and future research trends in the four most predominant topics of research in blockchain for accounting.

Findings
Blockchain is not yet a mainstream accounting topic, and most of the current literature is normative. The four most commonly discussed areas of blockchain include the changing role of accountants; new challenges for auditors; opportunities and challenges of blockchain application technology; and the regulation of cryptoassets. While blockchain will likely be disruptive to accounting and auditing, there will still be a need for these roles. With the sheer volume of information that blockchain records, both professions may shift out of the back-office toward higher-profile advisory roles where accountants try to align competitive intelligence with business strategy, and auditors are called on ex-ante to verify transactions, accounting ecosystems, and even whole supply chains.

Practical implications
The possibilities that blockchain brings to information disclosure, fraud detection, and overcoming the threat of shadow dealings in developing countries all contribute to the importance of further investigation into blockchain in accounting.

Research implications
We identify several challenges that will need to be examined in future research. Challenges include skilling up for a new paradigm, the logistical issues associated with managing and monitoring multiple parties all contributing to various public and private blockchains, and the pressing need for legal frameworks to regulate cryptoassets.

Originality
Our structured literature review uniquely identifies critical research topics for developing future research directions related to blockchain in accounting.


Keywords: blockchain, accounting journals, literature review, machine learning approach, citation analysis

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

King, Tatiana and King, Tatiana and Ranta, Mikko and Dumay, John, Blockchain in accounting research: current trends and emerging topics (September 13, 2021). Garanina, T., Ranta, M., & Dumay, J. (2021). Blockchain in accounting research: current trends and emerging topics. Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal. Ahead of print. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-10-2020-4991, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4008005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,021
RANK
138,343
3 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies