Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Jump-Diffusion Risk-Sensitive Benchmarked Asset Management with Traditional and Alternative Data

38 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2022

Mark Davis

Imperial College London

Sebastien Lleo

NEOMA Business School

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

This paper addresses errors in mean return estimates in continuous-time asset allocation models. A standard approach postulates that stochastic factors explain expected asset returns. The problem is then to estimate these factors from observed asset prices via filtering. Recent advances have also combined asset prices with expert opinions to improve the estimates. However, these methods have limitations: stocks prices favor momentum strategies, and expert opinions require careful debiasing. To resolve these issues, we propose a jump-diffusion risk-sensitive benchmarked asset management model in which investors estimate the factors from both traditional and alternative data. We show that this model admits a unique $C^{1,2}$ solution, and we derive the optimal investment policy in quasi-closed form. We find that investors construct their portfolios from a passive core and an active satellite. The passive core adds considerations for jump risk to a simple benchmark replication. The active satellite blends security selection, and factor tilts with event-driven strategies unique to jump-diffusion problems. Thus, our model explains the most popular investment strategies. Furthermore, the improved expert forecast model and the introduction of alternative data provide factor tilters with new tools to sharpen their asset allocation.

Keywords: alternative data, benchmark, expert opinions, filtering, jump-diffusion processes, risk-sensitive stochastic control

JEL Classification: C32, C61, G11, G41

Suggested Citation:

Davis, Mark and Lleo, Sebastien, Jump-Diffusion Risk-Sensitive Benchmarked Asset Management with Traditional and Alternative Data (December 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4013413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4013413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
886
RANK
517,938
4 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies