Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring and stress-testing market-implied bank capital

Swiss National Bank Working Paper No. 2/2022

57 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2022 Last revised: 9 Feb 2022

Andreas Fuster

École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL); Swiss Finance Institute; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Eric Jondeau

University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne); Swiss Finance Institute

Martin Indergand

Swiss National Bank - Financial Stability

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

We propose a methodology for measuring the market-implied capital of banks by subtracting from the market value of equity (market capitalization) a credit spread-based correction for the value of shareholders’ default option. We show that without such a correction, the estimated impact of a severe market downturn is systematically distorted, underestimating the risk of banks with low market capitalization. We argue that this adjusted measure of capital is the relevant market-implied capital measure for policymakers. We propose an econometric model for the combined simulation of equity prices and CDS spreads, which allows us to introduce this correction in the SRISK framework for measuring systemic risk.

Keywords: Banking, Capital, Stress Test, Systemic Risk, Multifactor Model

JEL Classification: C32, G01, G21, G28, G32

Suggested Citation:

Fuster, Andreas and Jondeau, Eric and Indergand, Martin, Measuring and stress-testing market-implied bank capital (February 1, 2022). Swiss National Bank Working Paper No. 2/2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4023592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4023592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
RANK
248,063
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies