Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controlling the Narrative: Managers’ Topic-Shifting Behavior in Conference Calls

67 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2022 Last revised: 5 Feb 2025

Lili Dai

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Ping Gong

Yale School of Management

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Zihang Ryan Peng

University of New South Wales

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

This study implements topical analyses to identify the extent to which managers shift their responses from analysts’ questions in earnings conference calls and refers to this phenomenon as managerial topic-shifting behavior, a new information content construct arising from analyst-manager interactions. Using a sample of conference calls from 2002 to 2017, we find that managers in firms with better performance, more powerful CEOs, and fewer quality analysts tend to shift more from the topics of analysts’ inquiries. The Q&A-level analyses reveal that managers are more likely to engage in topic shifting when analysts’ questions have a higher level of tone or uncertainty or a lower level of specificity. We further find that managers’ topic-shifting responses provide incremental information for the capital markets, facilitating the incorporation of earnings information into stock prices. This information enhancement effect is concentrated in firms with weaker information environments and is distinct from the non-answers that managers provide in responses to analysts’ questions. Our study provides novel evidence of a proactive disclosure strategy leveraging managerial topic-shifting behavior.

Keywords: Conference call, Analyst-manager interaction, Topic shifting

JEL Classification: C80, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Lili and Gong, Ping and Jackson, Andrew B. and Peng, Zihang Ryan, Controlling the Narrative: Managers’ Topic-Shifting Behavior in Conference Calls (February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4024646 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4024646
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
D R Ayres , J L Campbell , J A Chyz , J E Shipman
Do financial analysts compel firms to make accounting decisions? Evidence from goodwill impairments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , p. 1214 - 1251 Posted: 2019
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
S P Baginski , J M Hassell
The market interpretation of management earnings forecasts as a predictor of subsequent financial analyst forecast revision
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 190 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
685
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,893
RANK
87,004
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies