Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Analyst Participation in Earnings Conference Calls Curb Real Activities Earnings Management?

46 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022 Last revised: 10 Nov 2023

Yuan Ji

The University of Texas at Arlington

Oded Rozenbaum

George Washington University - School of Business

Date Written: November 9, 2023

Abstract

We examine analysts’ participation at earnings conference calls when there are indications that a firm engaged in real activities earnings management to meet or narrowly beat analysts’ expectations. We find that analysts are more likely to ask questions on discretionary expenses at conference calls of firms that are suspects of lowering discretionary expenses to meet or narrowly beat analysts’ expectations. The results are attributed to cuts in R&D expenses, which likely have the most adverse impact on firms’ long-term prospects. We also document that analysts’ questions on discretionary expenses to suspect firms are associated with increases in discretionary expenses and a lower likelihood of meeting or narrowly beating analysts’ earnings expectations in the following year. These results suggest that analysts’ participation in earnings conference calls effectively curbs real activities earnings management. Last, we provide evidence that analysts’ questions to suspect firms on discretionary expenses are associated with lower analysts’ revisions of their EPS estimates. Overall, our study suggests that analysts’ active participation in earnings conference calls can deter managers from engaging in real activities earnings management.

Keywords: Analysts, earnings conference calls, earnings management, real earnings management, external monitors

JEL Classification: G10, G24, G30, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ji, Yuan and Rozenbaum, Oded, Does Analyst Participation in Earnings Conference Calls Curb Real Activities Earnings Management? (November 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029126 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4029126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
W R Baber , P M Fairfield , J A Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
W R Baber , S H Kang , Y Li
Modeling discretionary accrual reversal and the balance sheet as an earnings management constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 4 , p. 1189 - 1212 Posted: 2011
S Bhojraj , P Hribar , M Picconi , J Mcinnis
Making sense of cents: An examination of firms that marginally miss or beat analyst forecasts
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 2361 - 2388 Posted: 2009
A Bird , S Karolyi , T Ruchti
Understanding the 'numbers game
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 2-3 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,072
RANK
333,065
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies