Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Textual Analysis in Accounting: What’s Next?

Contemporary Accounting Research, 2023, Volume 40, Issue 2, pp. 765-805. [undefined]

72 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2022 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Khrystyna Bochkay

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Stephen V. Brown

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Andrew J. Leone

Northwestern University

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Date Written: September 7, 2022

Abstract

Natural language is a key form of communication in the capital markets. Textual analysis is the application of Natural Language Processing (NLP) to textual data for automated information extraction or measurement. We survey publications in top accounting journals and describe the trend and current state of textual analysis in accounting. We organize available NLP methods in a unified framework. Accounting researchers have often used textual analysis to measure disclosure sentiment, readability, and disclosure quantity; to compare disclosures to determine similarities or differences; to identify forward-looking information; and to detect themes. For each of these tasks, we explain the conventional approach and newer approaches, which are based on machine learning, especially deep learning. We discuss how to establish the construct validity of text-based measures and the typical decisions researchers face in implementing NLP models. Finally, we discuss opportunities for future research. We conclude that (1) textual analysis has grown as an important research method and (2) accounting researchers should increase their knowledge and use of machine learning, especially deep learning, for textual analysis.

Keywords: Textual analysis, machine learning, deep learning, textual data, content analysis, text analysis.

JEL Classification: M4, M2, G3

Suggested Citation:

Bochkay, Khrystyna and Brown, Stephen V. and Leone, Andrew J. and Tucker, Jennifer, Textual Analysis in Accounting: What’s Next? (September 7, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, 2023, Volume 40, Issue 2, pp. 765-805. [undefined], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4029950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,471
RANK
13,014
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies