Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Filing Speed, Information Leakage, and Price Formation

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4033712

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ron Kaniel

University of Rochester - Simon Business School; CEPR

Dan Segal

Reichman University

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 13, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the price discovery process in equity markets with informed institutional investors. Consistent with extant theories, we show empirically that institutional investors, in contrast to retail investors, trade based on the leaked sign of unanticipated news and then (partially) reverse their trades when the news become public. We also find that the longer the leakage period for institutional investors to exploit, the less informative is the news when it becomes public. These results are robust to controls for firm press releases and news articles and endogeneity concerns.

Keywords: Filing Lag, Institutional Trading, 8K reports, Private Information

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Kaniel, Ron and Segal, Dan, Filing Speed, Information Leakage, and Price Formation (February 13, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4033712, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4033712
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies