Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Flexible Predictive Density Combination Model for Large Financial Data Sets in Regular and Crisis Periods

Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2022-013/III

32 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2022

Roberto Casarin

University Ca' Foscari of Venice - Department of Economics

Stefano Grassi

University of Rome, Tor Vergata, Faculty of Economics, Department of Economics and Finance

Francesco Ravazzollo

BI Norwegian Business School

H. K. van Dijk

Tinbergen Institute; Econometric Institute

Date Written: December 27, 2021

Abstract

A flexible predictive density combination model is introduced for large financial data sets which allows for dynamic weight learning and model set incompleteness. Dimension reduction procedures allocate the large sets of predictive densities and combination weights to relatively small sets. Given the representation of the probability model in extended nonlinear state-space form, efficient simulation-based Bayesian inference is proposed using parallel sequential clustering as well as nonlinear filtering, implemented on graphics processing units. The approach is applied to combine predictive densities based on a large number of individual stock returns of daily observations over a period that includes the Covid-19 crisis period. Evidence on the quantification of predictive accuracy, uncertainty and risk, in particular, in the tails, may provide useful information for investment fund management. Information on dynamic cluster composition, weight patterns and model set incompleteness give also valuable signals for improved modelling and policy specification.

Keywords: Density combination, large set of predictive densities, dynamic factor models, nonlinear state-space, Bayesian inference

JEL Classification: C11, C15, C53, E37

Suggested Citation:

Casarin, Roberto and Grassi, Stefano and Ravazzollo, Francesco and van Dijk, Herman K., A Flexible Predictive Density Combination Model for Large Financial Data Sets in Regular and Crisis Periods (December 27, 2021). Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2022-013/III, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4034901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4034901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
RANK
819,493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies