Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predictors of Excess Return in a Green Energy Equity Portfolio: Market Risk, Market Return, Value-at-Risk and or Expected Shortfall?

Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 2022

Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Hani El-Chaarani

Beirut Arab University

Date Written: February 15, 2022

Abstract

The rapid growth of electric vehicles, solar roofs, and wind power suggests that the potential growth in green equity investments is an emerging trend. Accordingly, this study measured the predictors of excess equity returns in a portfolio of global green energy producers, from 2010 to 2019. Fixed-effects panel data regressions of daily returns, followed by quantile regressions, were performed. There was some support for the explanation of green equity returns by market returns and market risk (beta), as indicated by the single-factor Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), and the multifactor Fama–French Three-Factor and Fama–French Five-Factor Models. The most significant predictors of green equity returns were Value-at-Risk at a 95% confidence level, and Value-at-Risk at a 99% confidence level. Expected Shortfall was another extreme risk value measure. The importance of extreme value measures suggests the presence of fat-tailed leptokurtic distributions, whereby excess returns were explained by the risk of loss given adverse conditions, primarily at 95% confidence. We conclude that the proliferation of small firms and new entrants in the renewable energy sector has led to the explanation of returns by extreme values of risk.

Keywords: Green equities; capital Asset pricing model; fama–french three-factor model; fama– french five-factor model; value-at-risk; expected shortfall

Suggested Citation:

El-Chaarani, Hani, Predictors of Excess Return in a Green Energy Equity Portfolio: Market Risk, Market Return, Value-at-Risk and or Expected Shortfall? (February 15, 2022). Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4035875
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
282
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies