Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Managerial Ability Matter for Corporate Climate Change Disclosures?

Forthcoming, Corporate Governance: An International Review, https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12436

51 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022

Hussein Daradkeh

University of Southern Queensland

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Abey Gunasekarage

Monash University; Monash University

Date Written: February 19, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the association between managerial ability and the extent of firm-level climate change disclosures, and the moderating role of corporate governance in this association. Results based on a sample of 2,298 firm-year observations from the United States (US) from 2005–2019 suggest that firms with more capable managers tend to make more climate change disclosures. This significant positive association is weakened when firms suffer from weak corporate governance. These findings remain robust after addressing omitted time-invariant variable bias, observable heterogeneity bias, sample selection bias and reverse causality, and when using alternative climate change disclosure proxies. Further analysis shows that climate change disclosures have a mediating role in the association between managerial ability and firm valuation. Given the growing importance of integrating climate change-related information into a firm’s operations and the pressure exerted by various stakeholders, understanding the drivers of climate change disclosures has emerged as an important area of research in the accounting and finance literature. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to examine any link between managerial ability and climate change disclosures. Considering the recent pressure imposed on companies by regulatory authorities for more climate change disclosures, our study’s findings have important implications for regulators, policy makers, investors, financial analysts, researchers and firms.

Keywords: Climate change disclosures; Managerial ability; Governance; Firm value

JEL Classification: G34, M14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Daradkeh, Hussein and Shams, Syed and Bose, Sudipta and Gunasekarage, Abeyratna, Does Managerial Ability Matter for Corporate Climate Change Disclosures? (February 19, 2022). Forthcoming, Corporate Governance: An International Review, https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12436, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4038775
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
929
RANK
274,044
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies