Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountants facing accounting transformation in China: a preliminary prosopography

9 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Luca Zan

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Qingmei Xue

Nanjing University

Date Written: March 22, 2022

Abstract

In our paper “The Chinese accounting profession in the People’s Republic: A preliminary understanding from an oral history perspective” (Critical Perspectives on Accounting, forthcoming 2022), we investigate Chinese accounting changes by reconstructing individual accountants’ experience in the past 70 years. We interviewed 21 retired accountants and asked them to share their professional life. Their narratives show how the negative impacts of radical political movements shape the early period of the profession. We provide a synopsis of the changes and the professional profiles in table 1 and table 3 on the paper. The following two parts unfold these tables. The first part provides a summary of the major political events that impacted our interviewees; the second part aim at profiling careers of 19 interviewees in a more extensive way than what was allowed in the paper due to words limits. In a sense these notes can be seen as a sort of virtual appendix of the paper.

Keywords: China, accounting profession, oral history, prosopography

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zan, Luca and Xue, Qingmei, Accountants facing accounting transformation in China: a preliminary prosopography (March 22, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4063900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4063900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
M Ezzamel , J Z Xiao
The development of accounting regulations for foreign invested firms in China: The role of Chinese characteristics. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 44 , p. 60 - 84 Posted: 2015
M Ezzamel , J Z Xiao , A Pan
Political ideology and accounting regulation in China
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 7 , p. 669 - 700 Posted: 2007
L E Graham , C Li
Cultural and economic influences on current accounting standards in the People's Republic of China
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 32 , p. 247 - 278 Posted: 1997
C W J Lee
Financial restructuring of state owned enterprises in China: the case of Shanghai Sunve Pharmaceutical Corporation. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , issue 7-8 , p. 673 - 689 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
870
RANK
735,901
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies