Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Separating the Probability of Committing and Detecting Misstatements in the Restatement Setting

Forthcoming at Management Science

104 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Jane Barton

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Brian Burnett

The University of North Carolina at Charlotte

Katherine Gunny

University of Colorado at Denver

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Date Written: March 22, 2022

Abstract

This study demonstrates the importance of separating the probabilities of misstatement occurrence and detection when examining financial statement restatements. Despite the many benefits of examining the probability of restatements using traditional logistic models, interpretations of these models are clouded by partial observability – only subsequently detected misstatements are observable. We propose addressing this often overlooked issue by implementing a bivariate probit model with partial observability. We demonstrate the importance of separating these latent probabilities by re-examining three prior restatement studies and show the importance of separating the occurrence and detection probabilities. Our evidence suggests that future studies interested in restatements as measure of accounting quality should consider implementing bivariate probit models as one way to address the partial observability inherent in this setting.

Keywords: Misstatements; Restatements, Occurrence and Detection, Bivariate Probit

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Barton, Jane and Burnett, Brian and Gunny, Katherine and Miller, Brian P., The Importance of Separating the Probability of Committing and Detecting Misstatements in the Restatement Setting (March 22, 2022). Forthcoming at Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4064226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection processpreliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
B Baik , S Choi , D B Farber
Managerial ability and income smoothing
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2020
M D Beneish
Incentives and penalties related to earnings overstatements that violate GAAP
The Accounting Review , volume 74 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 457 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,402
RANK
150,243
5 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies