Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of the PCAOB’s International Audit Oversight on U.S. listed Foreign Companies: Evidence from an Initial Enforcement Breakdown

Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics

61 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022 Last revised: 8 Nov 2022

Tracy Gu

The University of Hong Kong, HKU Business School

Yiqi Jiang

HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: March 25, 2022

Abstract

Using, as a natural experiment, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s May 18, 2010, release stating that its oversight of certain foreign auditors had been denied, we examine investors’ early valuation of the PCAOB’s international audit oversight on U.S.-listed foreign companies. Comparing reactions for the release-exposed U.S.-listed foreign companies to reactions for other U.S.-listed foreign companies, we find a significant decline in the share values of the release-exposed companies. The decline is driven by companies with auditors from China; the on-list companies from the 19 on-list European jurisdictions do not experience significantly negative stock market reactions. Using difference-in-differences analyses of earnings response coefficients, abnormal stock returns and trading volumes surrounding earnings announcements, and analyst forecast dispersions, we find a decline in perceived financial reporting quality for the release-exposed foreign listings from China but not for the release-exposed companies from the 19 European jurisdictions—a finding in line with the results of the stock market reaction analyses. These results are consistent with the view that the PCAOB’s international inspection would create a net value for U.S.-listed companies from China.

Keywords: international inspection; audit oversight; U.S. listed foreign companies; market reactions; perceived financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: F50; F65; K22; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Tracy (Ti) and Jiang, Yiqi and Simunic, Dan A., The Value of the PCAOB’s International Audit Oversight on U.S. listed Foreign Companies: Evidence from an Initial Enforcement Breakdown (March 25, 2022). Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4066322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4066322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
W Bailey , G A Karolyi , C Salva
The economic consequences of increased disclosure: evidence from international cross-listings Posted: 2006
J. Financ. Econ , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213
B K Behn , J H Choi , T Kang
Audit quality and properties of analyst earnings forecasts
Account. Rev , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2008
E Boehmer , J Masumeci , A B Poulsen
Event-study methodology under conditions of eventinduced variance
J. Financ. Econ , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 253 - 272 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,053
RANK
388,737
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies