Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Industry Information Sharing among Colleagues and Analyst Research

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-152

52 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

Allen H. Huang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

An-Ping Lin

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Amy Zang

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 28, 2022

Abstract

We identify a specific organizational resource in brokerage houses—information sharing among analyst colleagues who cover economically related industries along a supply chain. After controlling for brokerage selection effects, we show evidence consistent with the benefit of this resource to analyst research performance. Specifically, we find that analysts whose colleagues cover more economically connected industries have better research performance, especially when their colleagues produce higher-quality research. We further show that colleagues’ coverage of downstream (upstream) industries is positively related to the accuracy of only analysts’ revenue (expense) forecasts and that analysts and their highly connected colleagues tend to issue earnings forecast revisions contemporaneously. Last, we find that analysts with economically connected colleagues tend to have a higher level of industry specialization. Overall, our findings suggest that analysts rely on organizational resources to produce high-quality research. Hence, a portion of their performance and reputation is not transferable across employers.

Keywords: financial analyst, information sharing, economically connected industries, supply chain, analyst performance, industry specialization

JEL Classification: D23, G24, G29, L14, M14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Allen H. and Lin, An-Ping and Zang, Amy, Cross-Industry Information Sharing among Colleagues and Analyst Research (March 28, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4069075
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
D Acemoglu , V M Carvalho , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
The network origins of aggregate fluctuations
Econometrica , volume 80 , p. 1977 - 2016 Posted: 2012
K R Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
J. Finan. Econ , volume 103 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
P Allison , J Long
Departmental effects on scientific productivity
Am. Sociol. Rev , volume 55 , p. 469 - 478 Posted: 1990
D Aobdia , J Caskey , N B Ozel
Inter-industry network structure and the cross-predictability of earnings and stock returns
Rev. Acc. Stud , volume 19 , p. 1191 - 1224 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
106,324
18 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies