Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predictive Process Monitoring for Internal Audit: Forecasting Payment Punctuality from the Perspective of the Three Lines Model

30 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022 Last revised: 26 May 2024

Tim Bäßler

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: April 10, 2022

Abstract

Research in predictive process monitoring exists mainly from the perspective of process and risk owners. Existing guidelines from the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) omit process mining or process predictions for internal audit. Attempting to bridge this gap, we implement a framework which redefines the role of internal audit using predictive process monitoring within the Three Lines Model. The framework takes into account that the internal audit function should not interfere with the obligations of the first two lines, but still reduces risk and prevents undesired outcomes. Since many outcomes of interest in internal audit (like payment punctuality, payment discounts, receipt of goods, deliveries etc.) have fixed deadlines, we use fixed time buckets for training and runtime implementation. This bucketing approach moves the prediction towards the outcome and leaves audit clients enough time to prevent the undesired outcome. Using machine learning methods and implementing a classical internal audit use case, payment punctuality, with a publicly available event log, we show that internal audits can use process predictions to provide assurance, reduce risk and prevent undesired outcomes. We further show that our proposed threshold optimization model enables auditors to balance false positives and false negatives depending on the risk and probability of the outcome of interest.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Machine Learning, Predictive Auditing, Process Mining, Threshold Optimization, Three Lines Model

Suggested Citation:

Bäßler, Tim and Eulerich, Marc, Predictive Process Monitoring for Internal Audit: Forecasting Payment Punctuality from the Perspective of the Three Lines Model (April 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4080238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4080238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
W M Van Der Aalst
Process mining: data science in action Posted: 2016
W M Van Der Aalst , M H Schonenberg , M Song
Time prediction based on process mining
Information systems , volume 36 , p. 450 - 475 Posted: 2011
M Alles , G Brennan , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Continuous monitoring of business process controls: A pilot implementation of a continuous auditing system at siemens
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 7 , p. 137 - 161 Posted: 2006
Research Symposium on Integrity, Privacy, Security & Trust in an IT Context
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,189
RANK
135,498
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies