Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Third Party ESG Ratings on Tobin’s Q, ROA, and ROE

31 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022

Richard Paul Gregory

East Tennessee State University

Date Written: April 11, 2022

Abstract

Performing a meta-analysis over the results of 104 studies involving the effects of third-party scoring of firm’s ESG activities on financial performance, I find that ESG scores have a significant positive effect on Tobin’s Q that leads to a significant premium for firms. The measured effects of ESG scores on firm financial performance are found to be affected by controlling for endogeneity in estimation and by choice of vendor for the ESG scores. Tests for publication bias indicate some presence of publication bias, but due to the effect of the choice of vendor the publication bias is complicated.

Keywords: ESG, Meta Analysis, corporate financial performance, publication bias

JEL Classification: G02

Suggested Citation:

Gregory, Richard Paul, A Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Third Party ESG Ratings on Tobin’s Q, ROA, and ROE (April 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4081189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4081189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
594
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,928
RANK
104,509
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies