Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Risk Factor Disclosures and the Variance Risk Premium

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022 Last revised: 10 Apr 2023

Matthew R. Lyle

Goizueta Business School

Eddie Riedl

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Federico Siano

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: March 06, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines how changes in risk disclosures affect uncertainty about risk. We measure changes in risk disclosures using the addition and removal of individual risk factors to firms’ 10-K filings, identified via textual analysis of the risk factors section. Our market outcome is the variance risk premium (VRP), which captures the market’s pricing of uncertainty about firm risk. Following recent theoretical predictions, we predict and empirically document that newly disclosed signals of risk-factor exposure—reflected in added and removed individual risk factors—decrease the uncertainty surrounding firm risk, as proxied via the VRP. We further confirm that individual risk factors offer incremental insights compared to alternative textual risk measures. Collectively, our findings suggest that textually evaluating individual risk factors reveals information about the uncertainty regarding firm risk.

Keywords: risk factors, disclosure, textual analysis, variance risk premium

JEL Classification: D8, G24, G12, M4

Suggested Citation:

Lyle, Matthew R. and Riedl, Edward J. and Siano, Federico, Changes in Risk Factor Disclosures and the Variance Risk Premium (March 06, 2023). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4090024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4090024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
S Arif , N Marshall , J Schroeder , T Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 221 Posted: 2019
G Bakshi , N Kapadia
Delta-hedged gains and the negative market volatility risk premium
Review of Financial Studies , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 566 Posted: 2003
M Barth , E So
Non-diversifiable volatility risk and risk premiums at earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 5 , p. 1579 - 1607 Posted: 2014
A Beatty , L Cheng , H Zhang
Are risk factor disclosures still relevant? Evidence from market reactions to risk factor disclosures before and after the financial crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 805 - 838 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
706
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,938
RANK
83,666
10 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies