Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Culture: A Review and Directions for Future Research

31 Pages Posted: 3 May 2022

Jillian Grennan

Emory University

Kai Li

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business; Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Canadian Sustainable Finance Network (CSFN)

Date Written: April 28, 2022

Abstract

We define corporate culture as an informal institution typified by patterns of behavior and reinforced by people, systems, and events. Corporate culture is manifest in many elements, but brings unity to employees’ perspectives through the expectations they have for how they need to behave to fit in and succeed in their firm. Advanced measurement techniques that make use of computational linguistics and granular data on companies are allowing researchers to study the dynamics of corporate culture at a level and scale previously impossible. These developments coupled with advances in the conceptualization and theory of corporate culture portend a rich research agenda moving forward. Corporate culture features elements of purposeful design and changes faster than societal culture; as such, one of the first steps in this research agenda is isolating the effects of people, systems, and events that serve as catalysts for cultural change. A richer understanding of the drivers of cultural change both in the short and long run can then serve as a foundation for testing and refuting cultural explanations for business outcomes and economic phenomena. This chapter summarizes this important research agenda and its achievements thus far, and outlines directions for future research.

Keywords: Corporate culture, informal institution, social norms, organizational economics, computational linguistics, intangible assets

JEL Classification: G30, G40, C10

Suggested Citation:

Grennan, Jillian and Li, Kai, Corporate Culture: A Review and Directions for Future Research (April 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4095565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4095565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
D Acemoglu , M Jackson
History, expectations and leadership in the evolution of social norms
Review of Economic Studies , volume 82 , p. 423 - 456 Posted: 2015
R Adams , A C Akyol , P Grosjean
Corporate gender culture Posted: 2021
J L M Altamuro , J V Gray , H Zhang
Corporate integrity culture and compliance: A study of the pharmaceutical industry
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 428 - 458 Posted: 2021
S.-Y Au , M Dong , A Tremblay
Employee flexibility, exogenous risk, and firm value
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , p. 853 - 884 Posted: 2021
Load more
5 Citations
Gary B. Gorton , Alexander K. Zentefis
Corporate culture as a theory of the firm
Economica Posted: 2024
Crossref
Kai Li , Feng Mai , Rui Shen , Chelsea Yang , Tengfei Zhang
Dissecting Corporate Culture Using Generative AI
96 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2023 · Last revised: 24 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 3,730
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xiao Cen , Yue Qiu , Tracy Yue Wang
Corporate Diversity Culture Spillover
56 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2023 · Last revised: 23 May 2024 · Downloads: 251
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John Robert Graham , Jillian Grennan , Campbell R. Harvey , Shivaram Rajgopal
Corporate Culture In A New Era: Views From The C-suite
46 Pages · Posted: 2 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 461
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,678
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,146
RANK
24,461
5 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies