Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Circuitousness in Disclosure Narratives

53 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 14 Feb 2025

Nicholas Guest

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Jiawen Yan

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Date Written: February 14, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines circuitousness, which reflects the extent to which related information is spread throughout a narrative as opposed to being grouped together. Circuitousness in the MD&A is negatively associated with the persistence of earnings, especially for firms with negative earnings. Higher circuitousness is also associated with greater ERCs, analyst forecast revisions, abnormal trading volume, and intraperiod price timeliness. Taken together, these results suggest revisiting topics helps inform investors. However, circuitousness also predicts returns over the subsequent year, consistent with it being costly to process. We find that circuitousness is incrementally and more consistently predictive than other textual characteristics that are typically associated with obfuscation, including Fog index and length, which are extremely popular, as well as repetition, boilerplate, and stickiness, which are closely related. Overall, circuitousness appears to help investors integrate disparate information, on average, while generating additional processing costs.

Keywords: disclosure complexity, natural language processing, machine learning, information quality, textual analysis, circuitousness

JEL Classification: D83, D84, G14, G30, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Guest, Nicholas and Yan, Jiawen, Circuitousness in Disclosure Narratives (February 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4098951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4098951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
H S Asay , R Libby , K Rennekamp
Firm performance, reporting goals, and language choices in narrative disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , p. 380 - 398 Posted: 2018
R K Atiase , L S Bamber
Trading volume reactions to annual accounting earnings announcements: The incremental role of predisclosure information asymmetry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , p. 309 - 329 Posted: 1994
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
732
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,291
RANK
79,911
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies