Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Measure of Firm Complexity: Data and Code

Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming

None

25 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: May 2, 2022

Abstract

We propose that firm complexity is best measured with accounting disclosures. Accounting is the “language of business,” and accounting disclosures of most business activities are mandated. Therefore, relying on accounting disclosures is the best approach for consistently capturing a wide range of firm activities for a large cross-section of firms. Measuring firm complexity is important for many applications in research and practice. However, firm complexity is multifaceted, making it difficult to measure. We review past research on complexity and motivate the use of Accounting Reporting Complexity (ARC), proposed by Hoitash and Hoitash (2018), to measure firm complexity. In so doing, we discuss the advantages of ARC over other measures. We then review studies that use ARC and provide a detailed description and code to construct ARC (and related measures) based on publicly available data. The complete ARC dataset is also available for download at www.xbrlresearch.com.

Keywords: Firm Complexity, Accounting Reporting Complexity, eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL), Organizational Complexity, Business Complexity, Financial Reporting, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

JEL Classification: B40,D20, C10,G10, L25, M40

Suggested Citation:

Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, A Measure of Firm Complexity: Data and Code (May 2, 2022). Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming, None, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4098929
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Are Words Beneficial to the Consumption of Numbers in Financial Reports? Working paper Posted: 2022
X Ai
The Auditor's Application of Professional Judgment: Evidence from M&A-related Critical Audit Matters Posted: 2021
H Akamah , S Q Shu
Large Shareholder Portfolio Diversification and Voluntary Disclosure
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 2918 - 2950 Posted: 2021
M Asiri
Three Essays in Investment Efficiency, Accounting Reporting Complexity, and Cybersecurity Breaches: Evidence from Corporate Tax Avoidance (Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2021
Load more
5 Citations
Scott Duellman , Jan Philipp Klaus , Blair Marquardt
Accounting Reporting Complexity as a Source of Insider Information Advantage: Evidence from Insider Trades
55 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2021 · Last revised: 12 May 2025 · Downloads: 341
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Owen Davidson , Michael S. Drake , James Moon , James Warren
Out of the office: Market impacts of professional inattention
Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 4398798 · 50 Pages · Posted: 6 Apr 2023 · Last revised: 27 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 310
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bo Ren
Do Auditor-Provided Tax Services Impair Auditor Independence or Generate Knowledge Spillover? Evidence from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
58 Pages · Posted: 5 Jul 2023 · Last revised: 19 May 2024 · Downloads: 213
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yimei Zhang , Yuxin Shan
Does The Adoption of Ixbrl Improve Data Usability? Evidence from Future Earnings Response Coefficients (Fercs)
ACCINF-D-24-00041 · 69 Pages · Posted: 29 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 93
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
773
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,726
RANK
74,422
5 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies