Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding How the Effects of Conditional Conservatism Measurement Bias Vary with the Research Context

European Accounting Review

47 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 7 Nov 2022

Mostafa Harakeh

American University of Beirut

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: May 2, 2022

Abstract

We re-examine previous seminal studies on conditional conservatism (CC) that apply the asymmetric timeliness (AT) measure of Basu (1997) and compare the outcomes with those based on the modified AT (MAT) measure of Badia, Duro, Penalva, & Ryan (2021) and the spread in conditional variances (SCV) measure of Dutta & Patatoukas (2017). Our conclusions are threefold. First, all three measures yield similar inferences in interrupted time-series settings that examine the change in CC following a policy mandate. Second, the inferences drawn from the AT measure in studies that model the determinants of CC based on cross-sectional settings are more sensitive to test specifications and research designs. Third, across the three measures, MAT shows the best empirical performance in terms of aligning with existing theories while being less affected by AT bias.

Keywords: Conditional conservatism; Asymmetric timeliness; Measurement bias; Type 1 error

JEL Classification: C23, D21, G32, M4

Suggested Citation:

Harakeh, Mostafa and Lee, Edward and Walker, Martin, Understanding How the Effects of Conditional Conservatism Measurement Bias Vary with the Research Context (May 2, 2022). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in management activities
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 33 , issue 6 , p. 551 - 572 Posted: 2002
J Duarte , L Young
Why is PIN priced
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , issue 2 , p. 119 - 138 Posted: 2009
S Dutta , P Patatoukas
Identifying conditional conservatism in financial accounting data: theory and evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 191 - 216 Posted: 2017
D Easley , S Hvidkjaer , M O'hara
Is Information Risk a Determinant of Asset Returns?
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 5 , p. 2185 - 2221 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
559
RANK
446,506
2 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies