Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Data Series Matter? Explaining Key Trends and Factors Generated by Artificial Intelligence

21 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2023

Irene Aldridge

AbleMarkets.com; Cornell University; Able Blox

Ying Ying

Cornell University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2022

Abstract

We show a simple way to let the data speak for itself. Specifically, we show how a large mixed bag of data, potentially embedded with missing data points and collinearities, and therefore unsuitable for traditional econometric analysis, can be useful in building fast and meaningful big data and artificial intelligence analyses and predictions. What’s more, our technique helps the results of the analyses to be easily interpreted by researchers, resulting in self-explainable artificial intelligence (AI). We use these techniques to build a surprisingly profitable E-mini crude oil futures trading strategy with monthly reallocations, delivering annualized returns of 100%+ with Sharpe ratio exceeding 2.2.

Keywords: asset pricing, artificial intelligence, pca, svd, factors, econometrics, explainable AI

JEL Classification: G17

Suggested Citation:

Aldridge, Irene and Ying, Ying, What Data Series Matter? Explaining Key Trends and Factors Generated by Artificial Intelligence (December 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4102299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4102299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
I Aldridge , M Avellaneda
Big Data Science in Finance Posted: 2021
M Avellaneda , J.-H Lee
Statistical Arbitrage in the US Equities Market
Quantitative Finance , volume 10 , issue 7 , p. 761 - 782 Posted: 2010
J Bai , S Ng
Principal component estimation and identification of static factors
Journal of Econometrics , volume 17 , p. 18 - 29 Posted: 2013
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
953
RANK
48,539
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Artificial Intelligence eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies