Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multi-Stakeholder Benefits: A Meta-Analysis of Different Theories

BUSINESS & SOCIETY: Accepted

72 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022 Last revised: 31 May 2022

Victor Zitian Chen, PhD, CFA

Amazon

Meng Zhong

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Patricio Duran

University of Richmond

Steve Sauerwald

University of Illinois at Chicago - College of Business Administration

Date Written: May 14, 2022

Abstract

We predict multi-stakeholder benefits as a measure for organizational performance from the perspective of important organizational stakeholders. Specifically, we identify the relative importance of theoretical antecedents that affect different dimensions of stakeholder benefits. Offering the first empirical synthesis of multi-stakeholder benefits to date, we assess the statistical explanatory power of different theories in the literature, focusing on the extent to which their suggested antecedents of organizational performance may lead to improvements in multiple dimensions of stakeholder benefits. Based on 110 empirical studies since 1990 to date concerning any two of four stakeholder groups (investors, customers, employees, and community /environment), we find no evidence for any single theory to have sufficient explanatory power in predicting benefits concerning all four stakeholder groups. Thus, we cannot reduce different mechanisms leading to multi-stakeholder benefits to a grand model or theory but need to resort to a multi-theoretical synthesis. Taking stock of the meta-analysis, we suggest future studies should fill three gaps: multiple dimensions within a stakeholder benefit, causal complexity, and inequality of stakeholder benefit creation.

Open Data: Readers can also find our correlation data from
https://github.com/GoPeaks-AI/multi-stakeholder-benefits.

Keywords: Organizational performance, Stakeholder benefit, Meta-analysis, Relative weight analysis

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Victor Zitian and Zhong, Meng and Duran, Patricio and Sauerwald, Steve, Multi-Stakeholder Benefits: A Meta-Analysis of Different Theories (May 14, 2022). BUSINESS & SOCIETY: Accepted, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4109671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
279 References
B R Agle , R K Mitchell , J A Sonnenfeld
Who matters to CEOs? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corpate performance, and CEO values , volume 42 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What we know and don't know about corporate social responsibility: A review and research agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 932 - 968 Posted: 2012
A E Akremi , J.-P Gond , V Swaen , K De Roeck , J Igalens
How do employees perceive corporate responsibility? Development and validation of a multidimensional corporate stakeholder responsibility scale
Journal of Management , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 619 - 657 Posted: 2018
K J Arrow
General economic equilibrium: purpose, analytic techniques, collective choice
American Economic Review , volume 64 , issue 3 , p. 253 - 272 Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
948
RANK
327,219
279 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies