Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Clustering Algorithm for Financial Time Series Correlation Quickest Hub Discovery Mixing Time Evolution and Random Matrix Theory

10.13140/RG.2.2.15474.79045

106 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022 Last revised: 9 Oct 2022

Alejandro Rodriguez Dominguez

University of Reading; Miralta Finance Bank S.A.

Date Written: May 8, 2022

Abstract

In this work we present a new method for Quickest Change Detection (QCD) and Quickest Hub Discovery (QHD) in correlation structures that geometrically represents solutions from asymptotic Random Matrix theory (RMT) consistently, and allows to incorporate new distance metrics for both tests. We present a new distance metric that combines both, QCD and QHD tests, with information about previous evolution of correlation in time. We apply this solution to financial time series correlations. Future developments on this topic are highly important in finance for Risk Management, Portfolio Management, Market Shocks Forecast which can save billions of dollars to the global economy. The topic falls within the scope of sequential, non-parametric, highdimensional QCD and QHD, from which state-of-the-art settings developed global and local summary statistics (for QCD and QHD respectively) from asymptotic RMT to detect changes in law. These settings work only for uncorrelated pre-change variables. With our geometric representation of the tests via clustering, we can test the hypothesis that we can improve state-of-the-art settings for QHD, combining QCD and QHD simultaneously, as well as including information about pre-change time-evolution in correlations. We use a new definition of how information about time-evolution of correlations is transmitted to return asset variables with a Dirichlet-Multinomial distribution from a distance matrix of rolling correlations with threshold (we name it Diversification Measure Distribution). We proof consistency for our version of the tests, we analyse the behaviour of our setup with respect to the state-of-the-art hyper-parameters and our method parameters, as well as the different versions of the test hypothesis. We are able to verify all these hypothesis for a large range of parameters.

Keywords: Quickest Change Detection, Quickest Hub Discovery, Correlation Networks, Random Matrix Theory, Dirichlet-Multinomial, Compound Networks, Diversification Measure Distribution, Clustering Change Detection, Distance Metrics, Clustering Statystical Test Consistency, Portfolio Management

JEL Classification: C990, C630, C440, C320

Suggested Citation:

Rodriguez Dominguez, Alejandro, A Clustering Algorithm for Financial Time Series Correlation Quickest Hub Discovery Mixing Time Evolution and Random Matrix Theory (May 8, 2022). 10.13140/RG.2.2.15474.79045, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Wikipedia
Stock market Posted: 2006-11
Foreign exchange market Posted: 2005-11
Bond market Posted: 2006-11
H Markowitz
PORTFOLIO SELECTION
The Journal of Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 91 Posted: 1952-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
735
RANK
464,511
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies