Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conceptualising Accountability as An Integrated System of Relationships, Governance, and Information

Financial Accountability and Management, Forthcoming

1 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022

Marc Pilon

Laurentian University

Francois Brouard

Carleton University, Sprott School of Business

Date Written: April 5, 2022

Abstract

This article proposes a conceptual framework that integrates the salient dimensions of accountability. It is based on an extensive review of the literature and draws on systems theory to develop an accountability system that can be applied to a wide range of organisations and contexts. It shows, through the accountability system presented, that organisations manage their accountability through stakeholder relationships, governance mechanisms, and information strategies, which are based on underlying values and purposes. This conceptual framework contributes to accountability theory by bridging different yet related concepts and clarifying the terminology used in the literature. Practically, conceptualising accountability as an interconnected system can help organisations operationalise their accountability management practices. A hospital case study is used to demonstrate the applicability of the accountability system.

Keywords: accountability system, conceptual framework, governance mechanisms, information strategies, stakeholder relationships, hospital case study

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Pilon, Marc and Brouard, Francois, Conceptualising Accountability as An Integrated System of Relationships, Governance, and Information (April 5, 2022). Financial Accountability and Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
472
RANK
759,678
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies