Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Risk Information

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 2, 2022

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4129228

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6881-22

Posted: 11 Oct 2022 Last revised: 14 May 2023

Kevin Smith

Stanford University Graduate School of Business

Eric C. So

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2022

Abstract

We develop a measure of how information events impact investors' expectations of risk. The measure is broadly applicable and simple to implement. We derive it from an option-pricing model, where investors anticipate an announcement that simultaneously conveys information on the announcer's expected future cash flows and risk profile. We empirically implement the measure using firms' earnings announcements, showing that it closely aligns with our model's predictions and offers strong forecasting power for firms' risk profiles, costs of capital, and future investments. We further highlight pitfalls of using simple changes in option-implied volatilities to study information gleaned from earnings announcements. Finally, we apply our measure to study disclosure regulation, the efficacy of text-based proxies, and market-wide events, which we use to illustrate our measure's uses, and illuminate its potential limitations.

Keywords: risk uncertainty, earnings announcements, implied volatility, cost of capital, risk disclosure

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G12, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Kevin and So, Eric C., Measuring Risk Information (May 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 2, 2022, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4129228, MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6881-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4129228
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
818
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies