Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Face Value: Trait Impressions, Performance Characteristics, and Market Outcomes for Financial Analysts

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 2, 2022

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Lin Peng

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance

Siew Hong Teoh

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Yakun Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Jiawen Yan

National University of Singapore (NUS)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2022

Abstract

Using machine learning–based algorithms, we measure key impressions about sell-side analysts using their LinkedIn photos. We find that impressions of analysts’ trustworthiness (TRUST) and dominance (DOM) are positively associated with forecast accuracy, especially after recent in-person meetings between analysts and firm managers. High TRUST also enhances stock return sensitivity to forecast revisions, especially for stocks with high institutional ownership. In contrast, the impression of analysts’ attractiveness (ATTRACT) is only positively associated with accuracy for new analysts or when a firm has a new CEO or CFO. Furthermore, while high DOM helps male analysts’ chances of attaining All-Star status, it reduces female analysts’ accuracy and the likelihood of winning the All-Star award. In addition, the relation between TRUST and accuracy is modulated by the disclosure environment and is attenuated by Regulation Fair Disclosure. Our results suggest that face impressions influence analysts’ access to information and the perceived credibility of their reports.

Keywords: machine learning, facial recognition, trait impressions, analysts, gender discrimination, EPS forecasts, All-Star Analysts, forecast revision, social interactions

JEL Classification: D83, G14, G24, G28, G41, J16, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Lin and Teoh, Siew Hong and Wang, Yakun and Yan, Jiawen, Face Value: Trait Impressions, Performance Characteristics, and Market Outcomes for Financial Analysts (May 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 2, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4129388
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
829
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies