Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Delays in Banks’ Loan Loss Provisioning and Economic Downturns: Evidence from the U.S. Housing Market

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 3, 2022

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Sehwa Kim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

I study whether banks’ loan loss provisioning contributes to economic downturns, by examining the U.S. housing market. Specifically, I examine the aggregate effects of banks’ delayed loan loss recognition (DLR) on house prices during the Great Recession and the channels through which these potential effects arose. I construct ZIP-code-level exposure to banks’ DLR before the crisis and compare high- and low-exposure ZIP codes during the crisis to examine the aggregate effects of banks’ DLR on the housing market. I find that high-exposure ZIP codes experienced larger decreases in mortgage supply, larger increases in distressed sales, and larger decreases in house prices during the crisis. In addition, I conduct individual bank-level analyses and find that high-DLR banks reduced their mortgage supply more than low-DLR banks, and mortgages issued by high-DLR banks were more likely to become distressed during the crisis. Taken together, these findings suggest that banks’ DLR was associated with nontrivial effects on the housing market during the Great Recession, and the effects of DLR on house prices were likely driven by both the credit-crunch and distressed-sales channels.

Keywords: real effects of accounting, banks, loan loss provisioning, housing market, crisis

JEL Classification: E21, G01, G21, M41, R20

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Sehwa, Delays in Banks’ Loan Loss Provisioning and Economic Downturns: Evidence from the U.S. Housing Market (June 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 3, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4132530
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
351
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies