Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency and Attention-driven Retail Investments: Evidence from Robinhood Investors

46 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022 Last revised: 8 Jun 2025

Zhan Gao

Lancaster University

Jacob Justus Leidner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

James N. Myers

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - College of Business Administration

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: June 08, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether the transparency of a firm’s information environment impacts investment behaviors of the retail investors, focusing on those who use the fintech brokerage Robinhood (“RH investors”). We develop a model which predicts that transparency reduces the attention-driven investing of RH investors. Using a measure of RH investors’ stock investment and measures of transparency, we show that higher transparency reduces RH investors’ demand for attention stocks. Moreover, transparency improves their investment outcomes by reducing their losses from investing in these stocks. Additional analyses show that the benefits of transparency extend to the broader set of retail investors and across market conditions. Finally, the results of an event study indicate that RH investors react less to attention-grabbing events when firms are transparent versus when they are opaque. These combined findings highlight the benefits of transparent information environments for retail investors, including those investing via Robinhood-type platforms.

Keywords: transparency, attention-driven investments, investor attention, Robinhood, information environment, retail investors JEL Classifications: G12, G14, G17, G31, M41

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G17, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Zhan and Leidner, Jacob Justus and Myers, James N. and Myers, Linda A., Transparency and Attention-driven Retail Investments: Evidence from Robinhood Investors (June 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4155321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4155321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
C S Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality Redux: The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2022
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
B M Barber , X Huang , P Jorion , T Odean , C Schwarz
A (Sub)Penny for Your Thoughts: Tracking Retail Investor Activity in Taq
The Journal of Finance , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 2403 - 2427 Posted: 2024
B M Barber , X Huang , T Odean , C Schwarz
Attention-Induced Trading and Returns: Evidence from Robinhood Users
The Journal of Finance , volume 77 , issue 6 , p. 3141 - 3190 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,452
RANK
210,853
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies