Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Olonite Questionnaire, Survey and Observation Response Extract

6 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2022

Oluyemi Ayodele OLONITE

Department of Accounting, Faculty of Management Sciences, University of Abuja, P.M.B 117, FCT-Abuja, Nigeria

Date Written: January 02, 2022

Abstract

Many research have only focused on a single way of analysing the collected data when other available data are available. This study proposes a template for researchers who intend to use either the qualitative or quantitative means in extracting data for analysis. The template shows the unified Olonite Questionnaire, Survey and Observation Response Extract Template (UNOQESRET) in which the first segment of the template shows the Olonite Questionnaire Response Extract (OQRE) the second segment shows the Olonite Survey Response Extract (OSRE) while the third segment captured the Olonite Observation Extract (OOEX). The UNOQESRE entails the OQRE, OSRE and the OOEX for research that entails both qualitative and quantitative. This paper recommends the Olonite Questionnaire, Survey and Observation Response Extract Template (UNOQESRET) for researchers who probably might need to extract information on a question-answer format, surveys and observation in a single research for possible triangulation.

Keywords: Olonite Questionnaire Response Extract, Olonite Survey Response Extract, Olonite Observation Extract, OQRE, OSRE, OOEX. OQSOTRE, UNOQESRET

JEL Classification: C15, C01, O41, E58, E52, F65, H83, H87, P43, C18

Suggested Citation:

OLONITE, Oluyemi Ayodele, Olonite Questionnaire, Survey and Observation Response Extract (January 02, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4157703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4157703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Behavior: Voting & Public Opinion eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies