Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Are Voluntary Disclosure Decisions Persistent? Evidence From Bayesian Hierarchical Modeling

62 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022

Chongho Kim

Seoul National University

Tanya Paul

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: July 20, 2022

Abstract

This paper shows that past disclosure decisions cause the current disclosure decision using a Bayesian hierarchical model that flexibly accounts for firm economic characteristics that may explain persistence in disclosure decisions. A management forecast in the prior quarter, relative to its absence in the prior quarter, increases the likelihood of forecast issuance in the current quarter by about 70 percentage points. The distribution of this causal effect over the cross section exhibits empirical patterns consistent with existing dynamic disclosure theories. The paper adds to the growing evidence on the sources of the dynamics of firm voluntary disclosure decisions.

Keywords: Management forecasts; Structural state dependence; Bayesian estimation; Disclosure dynamics

JEL Classification: M41, D83

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Chongho and Paul, Tanya and Zhou, Frank, Why Are Voluntary Disclosure Decisions Persistent? Evidence From Bayesian Hierarchical Modeling (July 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4168100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4168100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
V Acharya , H Almeida , F Ippolito , A Perez
Credit lines as monitored liquidity insurance: Theory and evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 112 , issue 3 , p. 287 - 319 Posted: 2014
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
The American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
V V Acharya , S Schaefer , Y Zhang
Liquidity risk and correlation risk: A clinical study of the General Motors and Ford Downgrade of
The Quarterly Journal of Finance , volume 5 , issue 2 Posted: 2005
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
289,981
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies