Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Functional Diversity on Team Creativity: Behavioral and fNIRS Evidence

Management Science, 0[10.1287/mnsc.2023.02157]

Accepted by Management Science

Posted: 3 Aug 2022 Last revised: 1 Sep 2025

Yasheng Chen

Xiamen University - Accounting Department

Adam Presslee

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Sue Yang

Texas Tech University

Date Written: July 27, 2022

Abstract

Variation in functional expertise is an important decision that managers face when designing teams tasked with being creative. We develop theory that predicts that functional diversity has countervailing effects on team creativity through its positive (negative) effect on the uniqueness (usefulness) of the proposals generated. We conduct an experiment where functionally homogenous or heterogenous two-person teams are tasked with proposing a creative use for an unused university space. We measure the uniqueness, usefulness, and overall creativity of team proposals. We also use functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) neuroimaging technology to investigate the underlying team cognitive processes. Measured outcomes and fNIRS data support our predictions. Combining conventional experiment and advanced neuroimaging techniques, our study informs theory and practice by providing evidence of how functional diversity affects team creativity. 

Keywords: fNIRS; Functional Diversity; Team Creativity; Uniqueness; Usefulness

JEL Classification: M12, M14, M41, M54

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yasheng and Presslee, Adam and Yang, Sue, The Effect of Functional Diversity on Team Creativity: Behavioral and fNIRS Evidence (July 27, 2022). Management Science, 0[10.1287/mnsc.2023.02157], Accepted by Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4174447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2023.02157
 Not Available for Download
100 References
Van Merchant , Der Stede ; Arnold
We use behavioral outcomes from an experiment and functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) neuroimaging technology to provide insights into how functional diversity affects team creativity. The current knowledge-based economy has accelerated the need for firms to build effective teams asked to design creative solutions
Scholars largely agree that team creativity is the generation of ideas that are both unique (i.e., novel) and useful (i.e., implementable) by a group of interdependent individuals , volume 36 , p. 63 - 85 Posted: 1989
I Aggarwal , A W Woolley
Team Creativity, Cognition, and Cognitive Style Diversity
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 1586 - 1599 Posted: 2019
D G Ancona , D F Caldwell
Demography and Design : Predictors of New Product Team Performance
Organization Science , volume 3 , p. 321 - 341 Posted: 1992
M C Arnold , R L Hannan , I D Tafkov
Team Member Subjective Communication in Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Teams
Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies