Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practical Issues to Consider When Working with Big Data

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

12 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2022 Last revised: 24 Aug 2022

Lorien Stice-Lawrence

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

Increasing access to alternative or “big data” sources has given rise to an explosion in the use of these data in economics-based research. However, in our enthusiasm to use the newest and greatest data, we as researchers may jump to use big data sources before thoroughly considering the costs and benefits of a particular dataset. This article highlights four practical issues that researchers should consider before working with a given source of big data. First, big data may not be conceptually different from traditional data. Second, big data may only be available for a limited sample of individuals, especially when aggregated to the unit of interest. Third, the sheer volume of data coupled with high levels of noise can make big data costly to process while still producing measures with low construct validity. Last, papers using big data may focus on the novelty of the data at the expense of the research question. I urge researchers, in particular PhD students, to carefully consider these issues before investing time and resources into acquiring and using big data.

Keywords: Big data, Alternative data, Emerging technologies, Research design

JEL Classification: A1, B4, C55, G00, M00, M4

Suggested Citation:

Stice-Lawrence, Lorien, Practical Issues to Consider When Working with Big Data (June 1, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175759 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
E Blankespoor , B E Hendricks , J D Piotroski , C Synn
Real-time revenue and firm disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies , issue 3 Posted: 2022
M J Denny , A Spirling
Text preprocessing for unsupervised learning: Why it matters, when it misleads, and what to do about it
Political Analysis , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 168 - 189 Posted: 2018
L W Cong , B Li , Q T Zhang , M Pompella , R Matousek
Alternative data in fintech and business intelligence
The Palgrave Handbook of FinTech and Blockchain , p. 217 - 242 Posted: 2021
K Froot , N Kang , G Ozik , R Sadka
What do measures of real-time corporate sales say about earnings surprises and post-announcement returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 125 , issue 1 , p. 143 - 162 Posted: 2017
Load more
3 Citations
Tim Loughran , Bill McDonald
Measuring Firm Complexity
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Forthcoming · 55 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 25 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 4,380
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian J. Clark , Sai Palepu , Akhtar R. Siddique
Firm Complexity and Information Asymmetry: Evidence from ML-based Complexity to Measure Information Processing Costs
50 Pages · Posted: 25 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 192
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Adam Booker , Asher Curtis , Bin Ke
Social media as a setting for accounting research
65 Pages · Posted: 21 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 280
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
952
RANK
364,455
3 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies