Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distinguishing Between Recurring and Nonrecurring Components of Earnings Using Unobserved Components Modelling

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

70 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2022 Last revised: 8 Mar 2024

Jesse Gardner

Clemson University - Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business

Richard G. Sloan

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Joon Sang Yoon

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Date Written: February 25, 2024

Abstract

Distinguishing between recurring and nonrecurring components of earnings is a critical task in financial analysis and valuation. Academics and quantitative investors often rely on measures of recurring and nonrecurring components derived from standardized financial databases. We use unobserved components modeling and the Kalman smoother to obtain efficient ex-post estimates of the recurring and nonrecurring components of annual earnings. We then show that popular measures are significantly misspecified and that investors appear to anticipate a significant portion of the misspecification. Finally, we identify certain misclassified items that drive misspecification and provide algorithms to improve their ex-ante classification.

Keywords: Transitory Components, Recurring Earnings, Valuation, Financial Analysis

JEL Classification: C51, G11, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gardner, Jesse and Sloan, Richard G. and Yoon, Joon Sang, Distinguishing Between Recurring and Nonrecurring Components of Earnings Using Unobserved Components Modelling (February 25, 2024). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4178828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4178828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A M Abdalla , C D Clubb
Classification shifting using income-decreasing special items: measurement and valuation issues
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 56 Posted: 2023
A Ali , P Zarowin
Permanent versus transitory components of annual earnings and estimation error in earnings response coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2-3 , p. 249 - 264 Posted: 1992
W H Beaver
The time series behavior of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 1970
W Beaver , R Lambert , D Morse
The information content of security prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 28 Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
707
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,583
RANK
83,503
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies