Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entropy, Double Entry Accounting and Quantum Entanglement

Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Vol. 16 (4): 308-396, 2022

81 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

John C. Fellingham

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Haijin Lin

University of Houston

Douglas Schroeder

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: April 29, 2022

Abstract

This paper analyzes accounting using information theory developed by Claude Shannon and others. A three-way framing equivalence is derived (i) when states are observable; and (ii) when states are not observable and only a signal is observable where the signal reports the state with error. The equivalence establishes equality of accounting numbers, firm rate of return, and the amount of information available to the firm where Shannon's entropy is the information metric. The major assumptions used in deriving the state observable equiv- alences are constant relative risk aversion preferences, arbitrage free prices, and geometric mean accounting valuation. State unobservability is modeled using the quantum axioms, and, hence, quantum probabilities; the state is unobservable in the same way quantum ob- jects are unobservable. The state observable equivalence is seen to be a special case of the state unobservable equivalence.

Quantum probabilities allow analyzing the e¤ects of entanglement, a phenomenon not occurring when classical probabilities are used. Entanglement is seen to be a powerful economic force, and caused by instantaneous communication of information. We speculate double entry accounting can be a mechanism for creating entanglement e¤ects as (i) double entry accounting conveys information relevant to the expected return maximization and entropy reduction; and (ii) it does so instantaneously as the same number is simultaneously available in two places (due to double entry).

Keywords: double entry, entropy, entanglement, instantaneous information transfer

JEL Classification: D81, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Fellingham, John C. and Lin, Haijin and Schroeder, Douglas, Entropy, Double Entry Accounting and Quantum Entanglement (April 29, 2022). Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Vol. 16 (4): 308-396, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4179661
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
References Aczel , A D
Posted: 2003
K Arrow , G Debreu , A Becker , J , K Hu , Y Liu , T M , J A Thomas , A Einstein , B Podolsky , N Rosen
Can quantum-mechanical Description of Physical Reality be Considered Complete?
Accounting Theory: An Information Content Perspective. McGraw-Hill Higher Education. Cover , volume 22 , p. 777 - 780 Posted: 1935
J C Fellingham , H Lin , J C Fellingham , H Lin , D Schroeder , S J Grossman , O D Hart
An Analysis of the Principal-Agency Problem
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium , volume 10 , p. 7 - 45 Posted: 1983
N Hakansson
Multi-period Mean-variance Analysis: Towards a General Theory of Portfolio Choice
Bell Journal of Economics , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 324 - 340 Posted: 1971
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,432
RANK
266,546
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies