Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Pays Attention to Sustainability Reports and Why? Evidence from Google Search Activity

57 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

Patrick Ferguson

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Jane Hronsky

Lecturer

Matt Pinnuck

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 5, 2022

Abstract

We introduce country-level Google search activity as a direct measure of the level of stakeholder attention directed toward sustainability reports. We validate this measure by establishing that search activity for sustainability reports is correlated with temporal patterns in firms’ supply of these reports. To frame the economic magnitude of this search behavior, we then show that the level of attention directed toward sustainability reports is very low compared to the level of attention directed toward financial and accounting information. Next, we examine two related research questions. First, we identify who pays attention to sustainability reports. We find, consistent with the environmental Kuznets curve, that attention toward sustainability reports is strongly associated with economic development. Consistent with findings in prior research that suggest citizens in stakeholder-oriented countries have stronger preferences for firms to act prosocially, we also find that search activity for sustainability reports relative to search activity for financial performance metrics is greater in civil-law countries than in common-law countries. Finally, we then explore the question of why individuals pay attention to sustainability reports and find evidence that suggests sustainability reports are used for two primary purposes: evaluating the societal impacts of firms’ actions; and, firm valuation.

Keywords: sustainability, sustainability reporting, corporate social responsibility reporting, CSR, Internet search, legal origins

JEL Classification: G1; M4

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Patrick and Hronsky, Jane and Pinnuck, Matthew, Who Pays Attention to Sustainability Reports and Why? Evidence from Google Search Activity (August 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4182067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4182067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J A Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: An empirical investigation
American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
C Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
Relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5-6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
217,404
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies