Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Artificial Intelligence in Accounting - New Perspectives on Empirical Research

32 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2022

Joachim Elmegaard

Copenhagen Business School

Abstract

In this literature review, we explore how Artificial Intelligence changes accounting. The literature increases our understanding of specific aspects of AI. However, we lack a comprehensive overview of its nature and implications. Through a review of 114 papers, we address 7 sub-technology themes particularly relevant for accounting, along with insights into the current state of research from 2010 to 2021. We present evidence regarding use of research methods, theoretical stance, and research themes addressed. In particular we focus on research papers presenting primary empirical evidence to assess the state of current empirically based knowledge in the field.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence in Accounting, AI Applications in Accounting, literature review, Knowledge Systems, Neural Networks

Suggested Citation:

Elmegaard, Joachim, The Role of Artificial Intelligence in Accounting - New Perspectives on Empirical Research. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4191419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4191419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A A Abonamah , M U Tariq , S Shilbayeh
On the Commoditization of Artificial Intelligence
Frontiers in Psychology , volume 12 Posted: 2021
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Automation and New Tasks: How Technology Displaces and Reinstates Labor
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
A Agrawal , J S Gans , A Goldfarb
Artificial Intelligence: The Ambiguous Labor Market Impact of Automating Prediction
AICPA , volume 33 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2019
M Alles , M Jans , M Vasarhelyi
A Field Study on the use of process mining of event logs as an analytical procedure in accouting. Accounting review Posted: 2014-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,569
RANK
30,469
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies