Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prospect Theory: Where is the Reference Point?

17 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2022

Serge Blondel

University of Angers

Abstract

This paper presents an experiment devoted to the question of the reference point’s (RP) location in the prospect theory. The main innovation is that there is an additional treatment where subjects, instead of choosing between lotteries, have one lottery each and can exchange it for the other. Assuming that the RP could be a lottery in the case of the willingness to accept, the prospect theory is able to explain the preference reversal phenomenon. This new assumption entails that behavior must differ between the group “choice” and the group “exchange”, but the difference turns out to be insignificant. In the case of a choice, zero appears too low as RP. According to the principle of indifference and assuming that the RP is a compound lottery (equal chance of having both lotteries,) appears as a worthwhile precision of the RP in prospect theory.

Keywords: C91, D81

Suggested Citation:

Blondel, Serge, Prospect Theory: Where is the Reference Point?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4203175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4203175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
455
RANK
649,230
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies