Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Is Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings Priced?

63 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2022

Alexander Barinov

University of California Riverside

Date Written: September 2, 2022

Abstract

Asymmetric timeliness (AT) measure from Basu (1997) regression is priced. Sorting firms on AT produces a 40 bp per month spread in six-factor alphas. The AT effect is driven almost exclusively by the bottom AT quintile, populated by aggressive firms that recognize gains more timely than losses. Investors seem to misinterpret aggressive accounting numbers and are ill-prepared for future negative events. The AT effect in returns in concentrated around earnings announcements, writedowns, and downgrades. The AT effect is also stronger for high limits to arbitrage firms and seems unrelated to liquidity and the business cycle.

Keywords: Conditional conservatism, earnings, writedowns, mispricing, anomalies

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Barinov, Alexander, Why Is Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings Priced? (September 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4209144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4209144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
914
RANK
478,373
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies