Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating a Practitioner-Focused Research Synthesis: A New Skill for Accounting Researchers

46 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022

Kris Hoang

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

Yi Luo

Ivey Business School, Western University

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: August 24, 2022

Abstract

Accounting researchers are familiar with the traditional academic literature review for communicating state-of-the-art findings to other researchers. However, the traditional review is poorly suited for communicating to practitioners about research findings relevant to practice-related issues. In this paper, we first encourage researchers to shift their mindset towards research syntheses as the primary, more suitable approach to communicating research-based knowledge to practitioners. Then, we provide a step-by-step primer for how to create research syntheses. As an illustrative example, we draw from our own experience of creating a research synthesis that practitioners ex post validated as effective in transferring research knowledge. This paper addresses not only the practical “how-to”, but also the mindset development necessary to assemble and convey research findings relevant to practitioner issues. We hope to equip accounting researchers to produce research syntheses at a standard comparable to other disciplines that regularly use this vehicle to communicate to the practitioner community.

Keywords: research synthesis, knowledge transfer, how-to guide, accounting, audit, financial

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Kris and Luo, Yi and Salterio, Steven E., Creating a Practitioner-Focused Research Synthesis: A New Skill for Accounting Researchers (August 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4210652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4210652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
for review. References American Accounting Association (AAA) Research Impact Task Force. 2009. The impact of academic accounting research on professional practice: An analysis by the AAA Research Impact Task Force
Accounting Horizons , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 411 - 456 Posted: 2003
AAA) Research Relevance Task Force
Report of the Task Force Posted: 2018
S K Asare , W R Knechel
An expanded scope for Journal of Accounting Literature
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 1 Posted: 2013
E Barends , D M Rousseau , R B Briner
CEBMa Guideline for Critically Appraised Topics in Management and Organizations. Version 1.1. Center for Evidence Based Management Posted: 2014
Load more
3 Citations
Kris Hardies , Fynn Ohlrogge , Jo Mentens , Jonas Vandennieuwenhuysen
A Guide for Accounting Researchers to Conduct and Report Systematic Literature Reviews
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 21 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Janet A. Samuels
Bringing Academic Research into the Classroom via Learning Strategies
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Katarzyna Piwowar-Sulej , Qaisar Iqbal
A systematic literature review on spiritual leadership: antecedents, mechanism, moderators and outcomes
Journal of Organizational Change Management , volume 37 , issue 8 , p. 18 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,139
RANK
298,527
3 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies