Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Replication of Audit and Financial Accounting Research: We do a lot more than we think

36 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Yi Luo

Ivey Business School, Western University

Constance Adamson

Queen's University

Date Written: September 4, 2022

Abstract

Widespread attention is given to the claim of a “replication crisis” in the social sciences that questions if published research results are robust. Accounting researchers echo this claim and add that very little accounting replication research is published. We carry out a conservative study to identify articles published in six top accounting journals that attempt to replicate prior financial accounting and auditing research. We find 248 replicating articles published in these six accounting journals from 1970 to 2016. Those articles attempt to replicate 298 published papers’ results. Our findings include: (1) the number of replicating articles published strongly increases over the period; (2) 60% of all replication attempts are completely successful, 29% report mixed success, leaving 11% that fail to replicate. These findings suggest that there is significantly more published accounting replication research than is conventionally believed and that published accounting results are relatively robust when replicated.

Keywords: Replication crisis, financial accounting, auditing, successful replication rate

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E. and Luo, Yi and Adamson, Constance, Replication of Audit and Financial Accounting Research: We do a lot more than we think (September 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4210603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4210603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
564
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,250
RANK
111,716
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies