Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Linear Programming Model With Robust Approach For Performance Base Budgeting (PBB)

Journal of Public Administration, Volume 3, Number 8, 2022

Posted: 10 Aug 2023

Adel Azar

Tarbiat Modares University

Ameneh Khadivar

Alzahra University

Mohammadreza Amin naseri

Tarbiat Modares University

Ali Asghar Anvari Rostami

Tarbiat Modares University

Date Written: September 7, 2022

Abstract

Performance budgeting has been an important theme of public expenditure management for decades. In the 1990s, however, a new wave of enthusiasm for performance budgeting began to sweep through governments. In recent years, however, the level of interest in organizational use of performance-based budgeting re-emerged with more details and support from researchers and practitioners. Performance-based budgeting refers to procedures or mechanisms intended to strengthen links between the funds provided to organization plans and their outcomes or outputs through the use of formal performance information in resource allocation decision making. Reviewing the history of other methods of budgeting showed that mathematical models of budgeting have been used wildly by researches. Regarding to the large number of parameters that are involved in process of performance-based budgeting, qualitative and subjective models could not lead to an optimum decision for budget. The purpose of this paper is to find a mathematical model for performance-based budgeting that could maintain the optimality and feasibility of allocation in uncertain condition of budgeting. The important factors that cause uncertainty are estimated values for cost derivers and future costs. We used robust optimization to develop performance-based budgeting mathematical models. Finally, presented models have been used in an Iranian bank for budgeting. The result showed that using robust models of performance based budgeting could improve the indicator of budget deviation in this organization.

Keywords: Budgeting, Linear Programming, Performance Based Budgeting, Robust Optimization

Suggested Citation:

Azar, Adel and Khadivar, Ameneh and Amin naseri, Mohammadreza and Anvari Rostami, Ali Asghar, A Linear Programming Model With Robust Approach For Performance Base Budgeting (PBB) (September 7, 2022). Journal of Public Administration, Volume 3, Number 8, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4212765
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
484
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies