Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Guide for Accounting Researchers to Conduct and Report Systematic Literature Reviews

Behavioral Research in Accounting (forthcoming)

50 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2022 Last revised: 19 Oct 2023

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Fynn Ohlrogge

Maastricht University

Jo Mentens

KU Leuven

Jonas Vandennieuwenhuysen

University of Antwerp - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: September 8, 2023

Abstract

Literature reviews can potentially contribute to our knowledge and understanding of a particular topic. However, consistent with anecdotal evidence, we document that literature reviews in auditing are of low quality in implementing best practice guidelines for conducting and reporting systematic reviews. We rely on existing guidelines and best practices in other domains to offer accounting researchers a step-by-step guide for conducting and reporting systematic literature reviews. We hope this guide will help to improve the quality of literature reviews in accounting and the assessment of such reviews by editors and reviewers.

Keywords: Accounting research, Systematic review, literature review, meta-analysis, synthesis

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hardies, Kris and Ohlrogge, Fynn and Mentens, Jo and Vandennieuwenhuysen, Jonas, A Guide for Accounting Researchers to Conduct and Report Systematic Literature Reviews (September 8, 2023). Behavioral Research in Accounting (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4225598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4225598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
547
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,020
RANK
116,133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies