Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Meets Substance: Evaluating ESG Reports in the Context of 10-Ks and Firm Performance

56 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Ethan Rouen

Harvard Business School

Kunal Sachdeva

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: March 15, 2024

Abstract

We use widely adopted voluntary ESG disclosure standards and leading machine learning techniques to quantify and compare the ESG content across a comprehensive sample of public firms’ ESG reports and their 10-Ks. ESG information in both documents is financially material, and the amount of material information has increased over time. While both documents feature financially material ESG information, ESG reports uniquely offer additional material insights not found in the 10-K. Studying the market reaction around the public disclosure of ESG reports, we find the release of reports and the intensity of material information in the reports do not predict changes in returns in the short run. Studying the long term implications, we find that reports with novel material information are related to decreased downside firm risks in subsequent years. Overall, our study underscores the unique value of ESG report data and sheds light on its practical relevance for investors.

Keywords: ESG Reports, Annual Reports, Financial Materiality, SASB, Textual Analysis

JEL Classification: M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Rouen, Ethan and Sachdeva, Kunal and Yoon, Aaron, Sustainability Meets Substance: Evaluating ESG Reports in the Context of 10-Ks and Firm Performance (March 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4227934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4227934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Pat Akey , Stefan Lewellen , Inessa Liskovich , Christoph Schiller
Hacking corporate reputations Posted: 2024
Rui Albuquerque , Yrjö Koskinen , Chendi Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Salman Arif , Nargess M Golshan
The value of values: Does focusing on ESG provide a competitive advantage in forecasting earnings? Posted: 2023
Andrew Baker , David F Larcker , Charles Mcclure , Durgesh Saraph , Edward M Watts
Diversity washing Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,073
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,890
RANK
5,885
8 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies