Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure and the Earnings Announcement Premium

48 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2022

Amir Amel-Zadeh

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Qirong Song

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: October 1, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how voluntary disclosure affects the earnings announcement premium (EAP). Using S&P500 index additions as an exogenous source of variation to voluntary disclosures, we test the effect of guidance on information risk and investor attention as drivers of the EAP. We document a significantly positive (negative) effect of raised (lowered) guidance on the EAP reconciling attention-based and risk-based explanations. Disentangling direct and mediated effects, we find a positive direct effect of raised guidance on the EAP (attention channel) and a weaker countervailing negative indirect effect of raised guidance on idiosyncratic risk (risk channel). Lowered guidance has an unambiguously negative direct and indirect effect. Using high-frequency data we further confirm the effect of voluntary disclosure on both sources of the earnings announcement premium.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, mandatory disclosure, earnings announcement premium, S&P500 additions, structural equation model

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Amel-Zadeh, Amir and Song, Qirong, Voluntary Disclosure and the Earnings Announcement Premium (October 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4235296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4235296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,588
RANK
211,569
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies