Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Uniqueness and Analyst Participation: Evidence from Earnings Conference Calls

53 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022 Last revised: 18 Jul 2025

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Joe López-Vilaró

University of Arkansas

Caleb Rawson

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 3, 2023

Abstract

The earnings season represents a key information discovery period for market participants. During an earnings season, components of firm performance can be derived from both the firms’ earnings announcement and the disclosures of peer firms reporting in the earnings season. We examine differences in the qualitative disclosure of a firm relative to that of its industry peers and whether these differences in disclosure are informative to a firm’s analysts. We find that disclosure dissimilarity in the manager prepared narrative (MPN) portion of the earnings conference call varies with the information content of a firm’s earnings news and industry expertise among a firm’s analyst following. Further, we find that the dissimilarity in qualitative disclosure impacts analyst activity during the question-and-answer (Q&A) portion of the earnings conference call and their forecasting activity for the subsequent period. Taken together, our results suggest that a component of the information presented in earnings conference calls is the uniqueness of managements’ disclosure relative to the disclosure provided by (earlier announcing) peer firms. Furthermore, providing unique disclosure relative to peers influences analyst participation in the Q&A portion of the earnings conference call and aids them in forecasting future firm earnings performance.

Keywords: Conference Calls, Earnings Season, Disclosure, Analyst Following

JEL Classification: G10, G14, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and López-Vilaró, Joe and Rawson, Caleb, Disclosure Uniqueness and Analyst Participation: Evidence from Earnings Conference Calls (October 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4237617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4237617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
K D Allee , C Do , H N Do
Can Analysts Elicit Useful Information by Asking Unique Questions in Earnings Conference Calls?
European Account Review , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2024
K Allee , C Do , M Sterin
Product market competition, disclosure framing, and casting in earnings conference calls
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 72 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The Structure of Voluntary Disclosure Narratives: Evidence from Tone Dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
R Ball , P Brown
Some Preliminary Findings on the Association between the Earnings of a Firm, Its Industry, and the Economy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 1967
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
RANK
238,367
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies