Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No News is Bad News: Local News Intensity and Firms’ Information Environments

Review of Accounting Studies

47 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022 Last revised: 19 Sep 2023

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Ryan Cating

University of Central Arkansas

Caleb Rawson

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 17, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effects of local newspapers on firms’ information environments. With newspaper employment dropping precipitously in the last few decades, we posit that these changes will harm local firms’ information environments. Consistent with local news improving information environments, we find that volatility, spreads, and illiquidity increase as local newspaper intensity declines and that this is associated with firms’ importance in their local economy. We further find that for firms that are more important in their community, or have busy analysts, less local newspaper intensity is associated with significantly lower analyst accuracy and higher forecast dispersion. This is consistent with local newspapers improving information environments, even for sophisticated and likely remote information intermediaries. We also investigate how stakeholders respond to declines in local news and find that managers increase the amount of forward-looking disclosures while analysts increase coverage. These results provide insights into the methods by which stakeholders attempt to improve firms’ information environments when local news coverage fades.

Keywords: Local News, Information Environment, Analysts, Volatility

JEL Classification: G12, G14, L82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Cating, Ryan and Rawson, Caleb, No News is Bad News: Local News Intensity and Firms’ Information Environments (May 17, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4237587 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4237587
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When Should You Adjust Standard Errors for Clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
P Abernathy
News Deserts and Ghost Newspapers: Will Local News Survive? The Expanding News Desert. Center for Innovation and Sustainability in Local Media in the Hussman School of Journalism and Media at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Posted: 2020-06-29
J Accola , L Kilzer , D Milstead , J Smith , J
Kingmaker Qwest had the power to boost telecom startups, and some backed by Anschutz's private firms tapped in
Rocky Mountain News. Available at Posted: 2003-02-11
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Rumor Has It: Sensationalism in Financial Media
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 2050 - 2093 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
RANK
253,593
7 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies