Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intangible Investments, Scaling, and the Trend in the Accrual–Cash Flow Association

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 4, 2022

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Jeremiah Green

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Henock Louis

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Jalal Sani

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

We provide evidence that the documented weakening of the accrual–cash flow association results not from a loss of accrual accounting usefulness per se, but from the deviation from accrual accounting as it relates to intangible investments. More specifically, the weakening of the negative association is driven by the combined effects of (1) increasing intangible investments, (2) the practice of expensing rather than capitalizing intangible investments, and (3) scaling accruals and cash flows by book value of assets, which are understated for intangible-intensive firms. Treating intangible expenditures as capitalized investments and scaling accruals and cash flows by market value of equity, which reflects the value of intangible investments, (1) substantially strengthens the negative association between accruals and cash flows and (2) practically eliminates the apparent weakening trend in the association.

Keywords: accruals, accrual accounting, accrual quality, cash flows, capitalization, earnings quality, intangible capital, intangible investments, scaling by book value of assets

JEL Classification: E22, G14, M40, M41, O3

Suggested Citation:

Green, Jeremiah and Louis, Henock and Sani, Jalal, Intangible Investments, Scaling, and the Trend in the Accrual–Cash Flow Association (September 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 4, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4241163
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
528
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies