Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Was Sarbanes–Oxley Costly? Evidence from Optimal Contracting on CEO Compensation

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 4, 2022

Posted: 11 Oct 2022

George-Levi Gayle

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; Washington University in St. Louis - Department of Economics

Chen Li

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Robert Miller

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of regulatory interventions on contracting relationships within firms by examining the impacts of the Sarbanes–Oxley (SOX) Act on CEO compensation. Using panel data of the S&P 1500 firms, it quantifies welfare gains from a principal–agent model with hidden information and hidden actions. It finds that SOX: (1) reduced the conflict of interest between shareholders and their CEOs, mainly by reducing shareholder loss from CEOs deviating from their goal of expected value maximization; (2) increased the cost of agency, or the risk premium CEOs are paid to align their interests with those of shareholders; (3) increased administrative costs in the primary sector (which includes utilities and energy) but the effect in the other two broadly defined sectors, services and consumer goods, was more nuanced; and (4) had no effect on the attitude of CEOs toward risk.

Keywords: CEO versus shareholders, hidden information, increased agency costs, principal–agent model, reduced conflict of interest, Sarbanes–Oxley Act, set identification, structural estimation

JEL Classification: C10, C12, C13, J30, J33, M50, M52, M55

Suggested Citation:

Gayle, George-Levi and Gayle, George-Levi and Li, Chen and Miller, Robert, Was Sarbanes–Oxley Costly? Evidence from Optimal Contracting on CEO Compensation (September 1, 2022). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 60, Issue 4, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4241086
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies