Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It's About Time: Evidence of a New Strategy Boards Use to Mitigate the Ex Post Settling Up Problem

42 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2022 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Ryan T. Ball

The Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan

R. Tucker Davis

University of Wyoming; The University of Alabama, Culverhouse School of Accountancy

James Lawson

Bucknell University

Daniel Street

Bucknell University

Date Written: January 13, 2025

Abstract

Purpose 

In the context of the ex-post settling up problem—wherein boards that award CEOs for unrealized gains that never actually materialize have a difficult time recovering that compensation—we examine the intra-period association between CEO cash compensation and stock returns consistent with boards using the passage of time to mitigate ex-post settling up.

Design/methodology/approach 

We employ a novel linear mixed data sampling (MIDAS) approach. This approach exploits the variation in daily stock returns to assess the relationship between annual CEO cash compensation and intra-period performance information.

Findings 

We find that CEO cash compensation is more sensitive to market returns at the beginning of the period than at the end. Specifically, a 1% change in returns at the beginning of the period results in a 0.324% change in CEO cash compensation, whereas a 1% change in returns at the end of the period results in only a 0.064% change in CEO cash compensation. Additionally, we find that compensation is more sensitive to returns surrounding earnings announcements.

Originality/value 

Our novel MIDAS approach allows us to examine the intra-period sensitivity of CEO cash compensation to daily market returns, and we are the first to show that the relationship between CEO cash compensation and returns depends on the timing of the return. Our results also contribute to the ex-post settling up literature as we are the first to document a new way in which boards can mitigate ex-post settling up. 

Keywords: Ex post settling up, executive compensation, returns, earnings, MIDAS

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ryan T. and Davis, Robert and Lawson, James and Street, Daniel, It's About Time: Evidence of a New Strategy Boards Use to Mitigate the Ex Post Settling Up Problem (January 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4251765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4251765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
724,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies