Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decoupling Research from Development

63 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2022 Last revised: 30 Nov 2022

Ma Hou-Ning

National University of Singapore (NUS)

David M. Reeb

National University of Singapore - Dept of Accounting

Date Written: October 31, 2022

Abstract

Reporting research and development together implies their allocation provides limited insight to investors. We construct and corroborate unique measures of development and research to evaluate this aggregation. These measures combined correlate with reported R&D expenditures at 99% (industry) and 81% (firm). In the individual measure validation tests, our research measure correlates with scientific publications (77%), while the development measure correlates with patents (71%). Our R&D measures cover 76% of NYSE firms, providing broader coverage than patents (30%), new product announcements (20%), and reported expenditures (46%).
Using these measures, we investigate whether a firm’s choice to emphasize either research or development provides relevant information to investors. We find that development and research differ significantly in predicting future earnings and cash flows. The allocation between research and development also helps predict whether a firm discloses its R&D expenditures. Development intensity, but not research intensity, forecasts increased product market concentration. Investors require higher risk premia for research relative to development activity. Overall, our results are inconsistent with the hypothesis that development and research load similarly in investor-prediction models. It is puzzling that firms do not explicitly disaggregate R&D disclosures to give investors insight into their allocation decision.

Keywords: R&D Disclosure, R&D Informativeness, R&D Allocation, Missing R&D, Disaggregating Disclosures, Research and Development

JEL Classification: M40, M41, O30, O32

Suggested Citation:

Hou-Ning, Ma and Reeb, David M., Decoupling Research from Development (October 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4263267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4263267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,262
RANK
441,693
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies