Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing the Measurement of Firm Inefficiency Accounting for Corporate Social Responsibility: A Dynamic Data Envelopment Analysis Fuzzy Approach

European Journal of Operational Research, 2022, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2022 Last revised: 13 Feb 2023

Juan Aparicio

University Miguel Hernandez - Center of Operations Research

Magdalena Kapelko

Wroclaw University of Economics and Business, Department of Logistics

Lidia Ortiz

Miguel Hernandez University - Center of Operations Research

Date Written: January 31, 2021

Abstract

This paper contributes to research on the corporate social responsibility (CSR) field and the inefficiency measurement of firms by proposing a new method for evaluating inefficiency accounting for firms’ CSR activities. The new approach considers the imprecise nature of CSR data through the fuzzy data envelopment analysis (FDEA) method and further extends it by allowing for the dynamic interdependence of firms’ production decisions through adjustment costs, related to firms investments. In addition, the new method deals with zero or negative values for inputs and/or outputs of the data. The empirical application used in this paper considers a dataset of CSR activities of European firms for three industries (capital, consumption, and other) over the period 2014–2016. Two main results are found with this data. First, the study shows that fuzzy dynamic inefficiencies tend to be lower than these obtained from the conventional crisp evaluation of inefficiency. Second, the study finds the lowest dynamic inefficiency for capital industry, followed by other, and finally consumption, which could be related to different pressures put by the firms’ stakeholders on CSR engagement within specific industries.

Keywords: data envelopment analysis, corporate social responsibility, dynamic data envelopment analysis, fuzzy data envelopment analysis.

Suggested Citation:

Aparicio, Juan and Kapelko, Magdalena and Ortiz, Lidia, Enhancing the Measurement of Firm Inefficiency Accounting for Corporate Social Responsibility: A Dynamic Data Envelopment Analysis Fuzzy Approach (January 31, 2021). European Journal of Operational Research, 2022, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4266005 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4266005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
528
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies