Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quasi-Indexer Ownership and Financial Statements Comparability

Posted: 11 Nov 2022

Zhuo (June) Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Jing Fang

University of Central Arkansas

Date Written: November 4, 2022

Abstract

We find a positive effect of quasi-indexer ownership on financial statements comparability. Using the annual Russell 1000/2000 index reconstitution as an exogenous variation in quasi-indexer ownership, we show that the positive effect seems to be causal. We interpret our finding as evidence consistent with the view that quasi-indexers have a predilection for financial statements comparability in order to better monitor the performance of portfolio firms and allocate capital in response to fund flows. We show that the positive effect of quasi-indexer ownership on financial statements comparability varies across subsamples in ways consistent with our interpretation.

Keywords: Institutional investors, quasi-indexers, comparability

JEL Classification: G23, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Zhuo (June) and Fang, Jing, Quasi-Indexer Ownership and Financial Statements Comparability (November 4, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267663
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
417
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies