Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Information, Disagreement, and the Valuation of Debt and Equity

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4278165

70 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022 Last revised: 20 May 2024

Snehal Banerjee

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Finance

Bradyn M. Breon-Drish

University of California, San Diego (UCSD) - Rady School of Management

Kevin Smith

Stanford University Graduate School of Business

Date Written: November 15, 2022

Abstract

We study debt and equity valuation when investors have private information and may exhibit differences of opinion. Our model generates several predictions that are consistent with empirical evidence but difficult to reconcile with traditional models. Belief dispersion relates to expected equity and debt returns in opposite directions. Similarly, expected debt (equity) returns typically increase (decrease) with default risk, though these relationships reverse for firms close to bankruptcy. Firms’ capital structures affect their valuations even without classical capital structure frictions (e.g., tax shields, distress costs) – when liquidity is higher in the equity than in the debt market, leverage can raise firm value.

Keywords: capital structure, rational expectations, difference of opinions, disagreement, liquidity trading, information quality

JEL Classification: G10, G12, G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Snehal and Breon-Drish, Bradyn M. and Smith, Kevin, Asymmetric Information, Disagreement, and the Valuation of Debt and Equity (November 15, 2022). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4278165, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4278165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4278165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
E Albagli , C Hellwig , A Tsyvinski
Dispersed information and asset prices , volume 2 Posted: 2021
E Albagli , C Hellwig , A Tsyvinski
Information aggregation with asymmetric asset payoffs
Journal of Finance , issue 2 Posted: 2023
A Ang
Asset management: A systematic approach to factor investing , volume 8 Posted: 2014
K Back , K Crotty
The informational role of stock and bond volume
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 5 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,681
RANK
159,379
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies