Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud Power Laws

Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper

66 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022 Last revised: 19 Dec 2023

Edwige Cheynel

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Davide Cianciaruso

New Economic School (NES)

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: December 16, 2023

Abstract

Using misstatement data, we find that the distribution of detected fraud features a heavy tail. We propose a theoretical mechanism that explains such a relatively high frequency of extreme frauds. In our dynamic model, a manager manipulates earnings for personal gain. A monitor of uncertain quality can detect fraud and punish the manager. As the monitor fails to detect fraud, the manager's posterior belief about the monitor's effectiveness decreases. Over time, the manager's learning leads to a slippery slope, in which the size of frauds grows steeply, and to a power law for detected fraud. Empirical analyses corroborate the slippery slope and the learning channel. As a policy implication, we establish that a higher detection intensity can increase fraud by enabling the manager to identify an ineffective monitor more quickly. Further, non-detection of frauds below a materiality threshold, paired with a sufficiently steep punishment scheme, can prevent large frauds.

Keywords: heavy tails, corporate fraud, earnings manipulation, punishment, zero tolerance

JEL Classification: D01; M4; M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Cheynel, Edwige and Cianciaruso, Davide and Zhou, Frank, Fraud Power Laws (December 16, 2023). Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4292259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4292259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
D Amiram , S Huang , S
Does financial reporting misconduct pay off even when discovered?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 811 - 854 Posted: 2020
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the revelation principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , issue 1-2 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Matthias Breuer , Eva Labro , Haresh Sapra , Anastasia A. Zakolyukina
Bridging Theory and Empirical Research in Accounting
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 24-06, Fama-Miller Working Paper , University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper 2024-38 · 27 Pages · Posted: 3 Apr 2024 · Last revised: 28 May 2024 · Downloads: 304
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,796
RANK
171,059
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies