Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Sentiment Through Context

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4316229

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-160

80 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2023

Richard M. Crowley

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

M.H. Franco Wong

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business; University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: December 30, 2022

Abstract

We examine whether empirical results using text-based sentiment of U.S. annual reports depend on the underlying context, within documents, from which sentiment is measured. We construct a clause-level measure of context, showing that sentiment is driven by many different contexts and that positive and negative sentiment are driven by different contexts. We then construct context-level sentiment measures and examine whether sentiment works as expected at the context-level across four prediction problems. Our results demonstrate that document-level sentiment exhibits significant noise in prediction and suggest that document-level aggregation of sentiment leads to missed empirical nuances. The contexts driving sentiment results vary substantially by outcome, suggesting lower empirical internal validity for document-level sentiment. Using three additional sentiment measures, we document the same inferences, concluding that document-level aggregation likely leads to lower internal validity. Sentiment is thus best applied at the level of specific contexts rather than across whole documents.

Keywords: Sentiment analysis, context, machine learning, aggregation, lasso regression, text analysis

JEL Classification: C18, C45, D83, G3, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Crowley, Richard M. and Wong, M.H. Franco, Understanding Sentiment Through Context (December 30, 2022). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 4316229, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2023-160, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4316229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4316229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
G Angeli , M Premkumar , C Manning
Leveraging linguistic structure for open domain information extraction
proceedings of the 53 rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7 th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing , p. 344 - 354 Posted: 2015
W Antweiler , M Frank
Is all that talk just noise? Information content of internet stock message boards
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
R Audi , T Loughran , B Mcdonald
Trust, but verify: MD&A language and the role of trust in corporate culture
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 139 , p. 551 - 561 Posted: 2016
M Azimi , A Agrawal
Is positive sentiment in corporate annual reports informative? Evidence from deep learning
Review of Asset Pricing Studies Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,559
RANK
214,562
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies