Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time-Varying Predictability of the Long Horizon Equity Premium Based on Semiparametric Regressions

Economics Letters, Forthcoming

11 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2023 Last revised: 9 Feb 2023

Deshui Yu

College of Finance and Statistics, Hunan University

Li Chen

WISE and School of Economics, Xiamen University

Luyang Li

Monash University - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

This paper proposes a novel semiparametric time-varying model for long-horizon predictive regressions in which the coefficients are allowed to change over time with unspecified functional forms. A linear projection method is employed to deal with the embedded endogeneity issue. We pursue an indirect approach to estimate the long-horizon coefficients through the implication of the short-horizon coefficients, which is less subject to overlapping observations. Monte Carlo simulation illustrates that the nonparametric estimation method works well in finite and large samples. Empirically, the predictability of return or dividend growth changes significantly over time. The dividend-price ratio predicts stock return in most of our samples, but the dividend growth is much less predictable than the stock return. Moreover, the dividend-price ratio predicts either stock return or dividend growth, or both in a local period. Our findings are robust to several forecast horizons.

Keywords: Long-horizon stock return, Time-varying coefficient, Profile estimation, Present-value model

JEL Classification: C14, C22, G17

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Deshui and Chen, Li and Li, Luyang, Time-Varying Predictability of the Long Horizon Equity Premium Based on Semiparametric Regressions (December 7, 2022). Economics Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4319953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4319953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies