Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gamification in Accounting Research: About Next Levels and Hidden Treasures

42 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2023

Julian Langenhagen

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: January 8, 2023

Abstract

Gamification has received a lot of attention both in practice and research in recent times. Although the concept is very versatile and can be found in several different disciplines, related publications in the field of accounting are rare. The contribution of this article is two-fold. First, I show that there are more topics in accounting research that can be linked to gamification as one might see at first glance, especially in behavioral accounting. This connection is drawn via the Octalysis Framework, a widely used framework that covers different characteristics of gamification by distinguishing between eight so-called Core Drives. Second, I provide an overview of aspects of gamification that are covered only insufficiently or not at all by accounting research to develop and further analyze ideas to fill the respective research gaps with both theoretical and empirical solutions.

Keywords: gamification, accounting, literature review, Octalysis

JEL Classification: D01, D91, M41, M50

Suggested Citation:

Langenhagen, Julian, Gamification in Accounting Research: About Next Levels and Hidden Treasures (January 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4320119 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4320119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
RANK
357,435
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Motivation, Influence & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies