Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discretion over Bonus Timing 

53 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2023 Last revised: 31 Jan 2025

Sidney Block

University of Cologne

Saskia Opitz

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Dirk Sliwka

University of Cologne - Faculty of Management, Economics and Social Sciences; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Timo Vogelsang

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Date Written: May 21, 2024

Abstract

We study bonus assignments by managers who have discretion over bonus timing. We first illustrate in a formal model that there is a basic tension between providing timely
recognition to employees and assigning bonuses based on reliable information. We show that the latter rationally causes a delay in bonus assignments as managers aim at gathering
more information to assess performance signals correctly. Analyzing extensive personnel records and linked survey data from a multinational firm, we find that – even in a bonus
system intended to provide timely rewards throughout the year – managers award most bonuses at the end of a year and provide evidence for the importance of the information
acquisition channel. However, our survey results also reveal that employees who receive bonuses earlier in the year perceive a stronger recognition compared to those receiving late
bonuses. Thus, firms face a trade-off between collecting reliable information and providing timely recognition.


Keywords: SPOT BONUS, BONUS TIMING, DISCRETIONARY BONUS, INCENTIVES

JEL Classification: J33, M10, M40, M50, M52

Suggested Citation:

Block, Sidney and Opitz, Saskia and Sliwka, Dirk and Vogelsang, Timo, Discretion over Bonus Timing  (May 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322361 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4322361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Margaret A Abernethy , Chung-Yu Hung , Laurence Van Lent
Expertise and Discretionary Bonus Decisions
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 415 - 432 Posted: 2020
Stanley Baiman , Madhav V Rajan
The Informational Advantages of Discretionary Bonus Schemes
The Accounting Review , p. 557 - 579 Posted: 1995
Ramji Balakrishnan , Naomi S Soderstrom , Timothy D West
Spending Patterns with Lapsing Budgets: Evidence from US Army Hospitals
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2007
Kai Barron , Mette Damgaard , Christina A Gravert
When Do Reminders Work? Memory Constraints and Medical Adherence Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,718
RANK
161,650
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies