Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discretion over Bonus Timing

Posted: 10 Jan 2023

Date Written: January 9, 2023

Abstract

We study bonus assignments by managers who have discretion over bonus timing, analyzing extensive personnel records and linked survey data from a multinational firm. We find that – even though the bonus system is intended to provide timely rewards – managers award most bonuses at the end of a year. However, employees report significantly higher levels of perceived recognition when receiving a bonus during rather than at the end of the year. We explore potential mechanisms driving bonus timing and employee reactions. Results from a field experiment suggest bonus delay is not due to managerial inattention. Rather, our evidence suggests that delay is driven by a precautionary savings motive and procrastination, leading to a "use-it-or-lose-it" spending spike at the end of the year. We furthermore provide evidence indicating that the strong association between earlier bonuses and recognition is not driven by their more surprising nature but rather by more immediate feedback provision.

Keywords: Spot Bonus, Bonus Timing, Discretionary Bonus, Incentives

JEL Classification: J33, M10, M40, M50, M52

Suggested Citation:

, Discretion over Bonus Timing (January 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322986 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4320765
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
338
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies