Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Conservatism and Supply Chain Finance on Bad Debt Expense

53 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2023

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Thomas Canace

Wake Forest University

Mark Cecchini

University of South Carolina

Yi Liang

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: June 18, 2024

Abstract

Standard accruals models assume a parsimonious, linear relation between accruals and changes in sales but ignore the accounting methods and transactions that generate accruals. Hence, legitimate transactions are often misclassified as accrual earnings management. We focus on a specific accrual, bad debt expense (BDE), and develop accounting-based models. We find that accounting-based models incorporating conservatism have much better explanatory power since they capture the conservative asymmetry in BDE that receivables can be written off but are rarely written up. We then investigate the effect of new transactions on BDE by examining supply chain finance, which reduces the risk of receivables. We predict and find that supply chain finance decreases the level and asymmetry of BDE, which would likely be misclassified as earnings management by standard models. Our study highlights the importance of modeling individual accruals using accounting methods and incorporating innovations in transactions.

Keywords: bad debt expense, supply chain finance, conservatism, write-offs, receivables

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Canace, Thomas and Cecchini, Mark and Liang, Yi, The Impact of Conservatism and Supply Chain Finance on Bad Debt Expense (June 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4328778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4328778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2008
A A Arens , R J Elder , M S Beasley , C Hogan
B A Badertscher , J J Burks , P D Easton
A convenient scapegoat: fair value accounting by commercial banks during the financial crisis
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 90 Posted: 2012
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in U.K. private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
980
RANK
291,202
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies