Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Textual Analysis and Complex Construct Development in Management Accounting: the Case of Value-Based Management Sophistication

49 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2023 Last revised: 15 Mar 2023

Janice Wobst

Leuphana University Lüneburg

Philipp Röttger

Independent

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Date Written: November 3, 2022

Abstract

Complex constructs in management accounting are often hard to replicate if they rely on surveys or manual content analyses. Such constructs include, for example, the balanced scorecard (Kaplan & Norton, 1992), customer accounting (Roslender & Hart, 2010), corporate sustainability (Joshi & Li, 2016), and value-based management (VBM) (Burkert & Lueg, 2013). This study suggests a dictionary-based natural language processing (NLP) approach as an alternative to measuring complex constructs and explains how to apply NLP in management accounting to customize a dictionary. The construct of VBM sophistication serves as our example. We then illustrate how to test the construct’s convergent and predictive validity. Our illustrative construct demonstrates acceptable convergent and predictive validity. First, this study contributes to construct development and validation in management accounting research by exploiting a computerized measurement approach. Second, this study offers a guide for construct development using NLP methods that is applicable to other management accounting constructs. Third, we provide a VBM-specific dictionary for consequent studies in this field. Fourth, our results add to the body of evidence that claims positive economic effects from increasing VBM sophistication. Overall, our study generates future research opportunities to leverage NLP to improve the measurement of complex constructs.

Keywords: textual analysis, natural language processing, construct validity, management accounting, value-based management

JEL Classification: C80, L1, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wobst, Janice and Röttger, Philipp and Lueg, Rainer, Textual Analysis and Complex Construct Development in Management Accounting: the Case of Value-Based Management Sophistication (November 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4335126 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4335126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,317
RANK
265,489
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies