Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factor Overnight GARCH-Itô Models

KAIST College of Business Working Paper Series

46 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2023 Last revised: 28 Jul 2023

Donggyu Kim

College of Business, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Minseog Oh

College of Business, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Xinyu Song

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Yazhen Wang

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Statistics; National Science Foundation

Date Written: July 28, 2023

Abstract

This paper introduces a unified factor overnight GARCH-Itô Models model for large volatility matrix estimation and prediction.

To account for whole-day market dynamics, the proposed model has two different instantaneous factor volatility processes for the open-to-close and close-to-open periods, while each embeds the discrete-time multivariate GARCH model structure.

To estimate latent factor volatility, we assume the low rank plus sparse structure and employ non-parametric estimation procedures.

Then, based on the connection between the discrete-time model structure and the continuous-time diffusion process, we propose a weighted least squares estimation procedure with the non-parametric factor volatility estimator and establish its asymptotic theorems.

Keywords: Factor Model, High Dimensionality, POET, Quasi-Maximum Likelihood Estimation, Realized Volatility Matrix Estimator

JEL Classification: C13, C32, C53, C55, C58

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Donggyu and Oh, Minseog and Song, Xinyu and Wang, Yazhen, Factor Overnight GARCH-Itô Models (July 28, 2023). KAIST College of Business Working Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4342551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4342551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price variability
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1988
S C Ahn , A R Horenstein
Eigenvalue ratio test for the number of factors
Econometrica , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 1203 - 1227 Posted: 2013
Y Aït-Sahalia , J Fan , D Xiu
High-frequency covariance estimates with noisy and asynchronous financial data
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 492 , p. 1504 - 1517 Posted: 2010
Y Aït-Sahalia , J Jacod , J Li
Testing for jumps in noisy high frequency data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 168 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 222 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
RANK
772,295
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies