Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Response Coefficients on Earnings, Special Items, and Negative Special Items Components

27 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2023

Bryan Brockbank

Oklahoma State University

William C. Schwartz

Oklahoma State University

Craig A. Sisneros

Oklahoma State University

Date Written: December 2022

Abstract

Early research on special items describes the valuation of these items utilizing several methods (e.g., response coefficients, persistence models, pricing correctness, etc.). As special item reporting became more common, research described reporting patterns (e.g., repetitive reporting, quarterly patterns, response to regulation) and investigated particular components of special items (e.g., restructuring charges, asset write-downs, goodwill impairments). In this study, we investigate the response coefficients on earnings and special items, with particular attention to the differences in these coefficients in the presence of positive or negative special items and the most common components of negative special items: restructuring charges, asset write-downs, and goodwill impairments. We find that responses to earnings change in the presence of positive or negative special items. Furthermore, we show that responses to restructuring charges, asset write-downs, and goodwill impairments reflect relatively positive, negative, and no news to the market, respectively, as compared to adjusted earnings changes.

Keywords: Special items, earnings components, restructuring, asset write-downs, goodwill impairment

JEL Classification: G30, G14, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brockbank, Bryan and Schwartz, William C and Sisneros, Craig A., Response Coefficients on Earnings, Special Items, and Negative Special Items Components (December 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4348120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4348120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
580
RANK
747,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies