Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Public Inquiries as a Data Source for Accounting Research: A Systematic Review

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

84 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2023

Gillian McAllister

Business School, University Of Technology Sydney

Nicole Sutton

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

David Andrew Brown

University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS School of Accounting; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Olivia Rawlings-Way

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Deborah Parker

University of Technology Sydney

Rachael Lewis

UNSW Sydney

Jiali Yin

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Bronwen Harrison

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Date Written: February 5, 2023

Abstract

This paper aims to bring to the attention of the accounting research community the opportunities and challenges associated with using public inquiry data for accounting research. We have conducted a systematic review of prior contributions in accounting, which incorporate public inquiry data, and identify trends in the types of inquiries, data, and analytic techniques used within the existing literature. Extending out of this analysis, we identify three broad lines of enquiry within accounting research that can be informed by public inquiry data, and provide guidance for future research in the form of specific research topics, questions, and exemplars that illustrate the possibilities of this empirical approach. Finally, we articulate the limitations of public inquiry data and identify strategies researchers may use to realize these possibilities in their own research endeavors.

Keywords: public inquiries, data source, accounting research, systematic literature review

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

McAllister, Gillian and Sutton, Nicole and Brown, David Andrew and Rawlings-Way, Olivia and Parker, Deborah and Lewis, Rachael and Yin, Jiali and Harrison, Bronwen, Using Public Inquiries as a Data Source for Accounting Research: A Systematic Review (February 5, 2023). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4349248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4349248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
751
RANK
461,853
1 Citations
143 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies