Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Researchers’ Beliefs About Debatable Research and Authorship Practices, with Advice and Anecdotes from the Field

52 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2023

Charles D. Bailey

James Madison University

Irana Scott

James Madison University - College of Business

Date Written: January 28, 2023

Abstract

Many research and authorship practices are debatable or poorly understood. Our purpose was to capture the attitudes and understandings of accounting researchers, especially for discussion in doctoral seminars, and to advance the discussion of research ethics throughout the academic community. We sent email requests to all US and Canadian authors who had published in any of twelve leading accounting research journals during the past twelve years, asking their opinions of the appropriateness of a variety of research and authorship practices about which there appears to be confusion or debate among accounting academicians (as well as in other disciplines). We also asked for exemplars of research integrity (good or bad) that participants have witnessed or participated in. The results shed light on the contemporary attitudes and perceptions of a diverse sample of 375 accounting researchers, concerning research and authorship practices that are currently under debate.

Keywords: research ethics; authorship ethics; questionable research practices; HARKing; statistical methods; doctoral programs

JEL Classification: C18, C49, C99, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bailey, Charles D. and Scott, Irana, Accounting Researchers’ Beliefs About Debatable Research and Authorship Practices, with Advice and Anecdotes from the Field (January 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4349289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4349289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
429,664
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies