Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alignment between Compensation-Contracting and Value-Relevance Roles of Revenues

Journal of Financial Reporting, Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2023

Hanni Liu

Manhattan College

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Jennifer Yin

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: February 6, 2023

Abstract

Revenue is the closest proxy in financial statements for market size and dominance, factors that often determine the survival and future profits of modern corporations. Hence, revenue may contain information relevant to investors’ decision making, in addition to the information contained in current earnings. We find that revenue is used as a performance metric in compensation contracts for managers when it provides information on equity valuation beyond the information provided by earnings. We call this occurrence an alignment between the contracting and the valuation roles of revenues. The alignment is higher for firms with investors who focus on the firm’s ability to beat revenue targets, with managers who provide revenue guidance, and with analysts who issue revenue forecasts, all of which reflect capital market participants’ interest in the firm’s revenue performance. The alignment is greater for newer industries and appears more prevalent in the stock option component of managerial compensation. This alignment seems efficient because revenue is more informative of future profits when firms accord higher weight to revenues in executive compensation. We conclude that modern corporations increasingly incentivize managers to create new markets and defend existing market shares, in addition to maximizing current profits.

Keywords: revenue, value relevance, executive compensation, financial reporting, role alignment

JEL Classification: J3, L2, M41

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Hanni and Srivastava, Anup and Yin, Jennifer, Alignment between Compensation-Contracting and Value-Relevance Roles of Revenues (February 6, 2023). Journal of Financial Reporting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4357456 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4357456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
713
RANK
453,964
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies