Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Up- and Down-Correlations in Normal Variance Mixture Models

13 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2023 Last revised: 19 Oct 2023

Jonathan Ansari

Independent

Tomer Shushi

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev - Department of Business Administration

Steven Vanduffel

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 11, 2023

Abstract

We study conditional correlations between pairs of risks in normal variance mixture models, which are widely used in risk management and finance. In particular, we examine up- and down-correlations defined as the conditional correlation between the sum of risks and an individual component, conditionally on the sum being large or small, respectively. We provide a characterization of conditional covariances and use this to derive explicit formulas for up- and down-correlations in important cases of the normal variance mixture model such as the normal, the Student-t, the logistic, and the Laplace model. Based on invariance properties of betas, we also provide a graphical test for assessing the validity of a normal variance mixture model.

Keywords: Dependence structure, down and up correlation, elliptical distributions, skewnormal distribution

Suggested Citation:

Ansari, Jonathan and Shushi, Tomer and Vanduffel, Steven, Up- and Down-Correlations in Normal Variance Mixture Models (March 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4385360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4385360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
525
RANK
580,030
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies