Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Markets-Based International Accounting Research

Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research, Vol. 3, No. 1, 2004

43 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2003 Last revised: 15 Dec 2011

Gary K. Meek

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - School of Accounting

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: August 1, 2003

Abstract

This paper discusses challenges and opportunities facing international accounting researchers and demonstrates the relevance of markets-based international accounting research to those new to the area. We review recent research in the areas of required GAAP for foreign-listed firms and adoption of international standards, accounting classifications, earnings management, the impact of foreign operations on firm valuation, capital market anomalies, and accounting reforms. Suggestions for future research are provided in each area. Examples of domestic research issues that can be addressed with international data are also provided. The opportunities for conducting international accounting research are many and growing.

Keywords: capital markets, international accounting, review

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M48

Suggested Citation:

Meek, Gary K. and Thomas, Wayne B., A Review of Markets-Based International Accounting Research (August 1, 2003). Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research, Vol. 3, No. 1, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=439143 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.439143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E Amir , T Harris , E Venuti
A comparison of the value-relevance of U.S. versus non-U.S. GAAP accounting measures using form 20-F reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,972
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,095
RANK
19,024
8 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies