Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discrete Choice Models with Piecewise Linear Utility: Modeling, Estimation and Pricing

81 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2023 Last revised: 7 Oct 2025

Chenxu Ke

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - College of Business

Ruxian Wang

Johns Hopkins University - Carey Business School

Zifeng Zhao

Mendoza College of Business, University of Notre Dame

Date Written: March 20, 2023

Abstract

Problem definition: This paper incorporates a piecewise linear structure into the utility-price relationship of the classic multinomial logit (MNL) model, and studies the associated operations problems such as estimation and pricing. The derived model is referred to as the piecewise MNL model and provides greater modeling flexibility by allowing consumers to exhibit asymmetric price sensitivities around unknown inflection points. Methodology/results: We study the model identification for the piecewise MNL and further propose a maximum likelihood estimator (MLE) for its calibration by real data. Due to the presence of inflection points, the log-likelihood function is non-differentiable, which poses major challenges to both numerical and statistical analyses. We propose a novel profile-based numerical optimization procedure which locates the MLE efficiently and further establish statistical guarantees for the MLE based on the empirical process theory. We fully solve price optimization under the piecewise MNL and show that the optimal pricing policy can be quite different from the standard MNL. In particular, the “equal-(adjusted-)markup” policy is no longer optimal and the optimal price may not even be unique. For price competition, we show that multiple equilibria may exist depending on the magnitude of the inflection point and then fully characterize the conditions for the existence of each equilibrium. Managerial implications: Our extensive numerical experiments on synthetic and real data suggest that the piecewise MNL can improve model fitting and prediction accuracy compared with popular choice models in the literature, and ignoring varying price sensitivities could lead to sub-optimal solutions or even substantial losses for firms.

Keywords: Price Sensitivity; Piecewise Linear; Threshold Effect; Estimation; Pricing

Suggested Citation:

Ke, Chenxu and Wang, Ruxian and Zhao, Zifeng, Discrete Choice Models with Piecewise Linear Utility: Modeling, Estimation and Pricing (March 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4394213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4394213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
RANK
248,977
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies