Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Efficacy of Multiple Testing Adjustments in Empirical Asset Pricing

39 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2023 Last revised: 3 Jul 2023

Min Zhu

University of Queensland

Date Written: March 22, 2023

Abstract

Multiple testing adjustments have become increasingly prevalent in empirical asset pricing. The purpose of these adjustments is to correct the tendency to reject the null hypothesis erroneously. The use of such adjustments, however, involves balancing the benefits of controlling false positives against the drawbacks of reduced power. This paper critically examines the statistical underpinnings of these adjustments and the consequences of multiple testing controlling on individual tests. It highlights the deficiencies of adjusting thresholds for statistical significance when the theoretical basis for the adjustment is questionable in finance research. Overall, the study suggests that multiple testing correction may not be an effective means of defending against data mining in finance.

Keywords: Multiple tests, False discoveries, Missed discoveries, Asset pricing, Anomalies, t-statistic hurdle, Data mining.

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, G15, G4, C5

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Min, Evaluating the Efficacy of Multiple Testing Adjustments in Empirical Asset Pricing (March 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4396035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4396035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
829
RANK
394,837
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies