Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reaction to CEOs’ Dynamic Hemifacial Asymmetry of Expressions

Management Science, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2023

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Hui Ding

Antai College of Economics and Management, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Rong Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Xiaorong Li

Antai College of Economics and Management, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Date Written: March 27, 2023

Abstract

Neuropsychological studies propose that listeners unconsciously assess speakers’ trustworthiness via their facial expressions. Building on this theory, we investigate how investors respond to CEOs’ dynamic hemifacial asymmetry of expressions (HFAsy) shown in CNBC’s video interviews about corporate earnings. Consistent with the neuropsychological prediction that facial asymmetry induces distrust, we document that 1) the stock market reacts negatively to the CEO’s HFAsy shown in the interview video, and 2) the market reaction to favorable earnings news is negatively associated with the CEO’s HFAsy. We also find a significantly positive association between the short-window abnormal bid-ask spreads and HFAsy, suggesting a larger investor disagreement for firms with high HFAsy CEOs. Furthermore, we show that analyst forecast revisions are negatively associated with CEOs’ HFAsy. Our results are robust to conducting a falsification test using the previous quarter as a pseudo-event, employing an alternative measure of HFAsy, and using more granular trading data at the second level. Overall, our study provides evidence that investor trust and trading behavior are affected by the dynamic hemifacial asymmetry of expressions appearing on CEOs’ faces.

Keywords: Hemifacial Asymmetry of Expressions; Market Reaction; CEOs’ Video Interviews

JEL Classification: D81; D82; D83; G12; G14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Ding, Hui and Huang, Rong and Li, Xiaorong, Market Reaction to CEOs’ Dynamic Hemifacial Asymmetry of Expressions (March 27, 2023). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4401399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,171
RANK
146,772
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies