Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting Earnings Variance: Quantiles-Based Vs. Residuals-Based Approaches

40 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Luca Brunke

University of Cologne - Department of Corporate Finance

Date Written: March 30, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to compare different earnings variance forecasting approaches to derive information about future earnings uncertainty. That is, a newly introduced residuals-based forecasting approach and the two existing quantiles-based forecasting approaches by Konstantinidi and Pope (2016) and Chang, Monahan, Ouazad and Vasvari (2021) are compared with regard to their forecast accuracy on industry- as well as firm-level. The results imply that the new residuals-based forecasting approach performs best in forecasting earnings variance on industry-level. Further, this study introduces two firm-level tests for the evaluation of the accuracy of earnings variance forecasts, which are not yet explored in this field of research. The approach by Konstantinidi and Pope (2016) leads to the most accurate firm-level earnings variance forecasts emphasizing the importance of the chosen level of aggregation when evaluating forecasts. All three approaches result in earnings variance forecasts with relevance for equity prices, i.e. produce variance forecasts with a negative and significant relationship with the earnings-to-price and the book-to-market ratio, implying that equity prices are increasing in the variance of future earnings.

Keywords: Earnings Prediction, Earnings Variance, Higher Moments

JEL Classification: G17, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brunke, Luca, Forecasting Earnings Variance: Quantiles-Based Vs. Residuals-Based Approaches (March 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4404839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4404839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Adrian , T , J Rosenberg
Stock Returns and Volatility: Pricing the Short-Run and Long-Run Components of Market Risk
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 2997 - 3030 Posted: 2008
S Alizadeh , M W Brandt , F X Diebold
Range-Based Estimation of Stochastic Volatility Models
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 1047 - 1091 Posted: 2002
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
S P Baginski , J M Wahlen
Residual Income Risk, Intrinsic Values, and Share Prices
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 327 - 351 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
705
RANK
487,089
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies