Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Usefulness of Guidance Reports

74 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023 Last revised: 30 Aug 2025

William J. Mayew

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Jedson Pinto

University of Texas at Dallas

Xiaoxi Wu

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 29, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether LSEG Guidance Report (GR) data are useful for scholars studying management guidance. We extract the contents of over 23,000 Guidance Reports for S&P 1500 firms. We find 1.735 million guidance instances across 192 items, which far exceeds the 261 thousand instances across 13 items included in the LSEG I/B/E/S Guidance (IG) database that scholars commonly rely on.  IG is a processed subset of GR containing only quantitative guidance that is standardized to be comparable to analyst forecasts. Qualitative (quantitative) GR guidance explains 76% (24%) of the coverage gap. Quantitative GR guidance is less likely to be processed into IG when standardization costs are high and the importance of the guided item to managers and analysts is low. Qualitative and quantitative GR guidance data absent from IG are associated with analyst forecast revisions and market reactions, consistent with GR capturing guidance of economic importance. GR also uniquely identifies disclosure channels and speakers, revealing that nearly one-quarter of guidance occurs outside traditional earnings announcements and that a variety of top management team members deliver guidance. These findings suggest that GR data can enhance academics’ understanding of management guidance beyond what can be learned from IG data alone.

For useful information and assistance with obtaining and extracting GR data, visit: https://www.guidance-reports.com/.

Keywords: Guidance Reports, Management Guidance, Voluntary Disclosure M41

JEL Classification: M41, C90

Suggested Citation:

Mayew, William J. and Pinto, Jedson and Wu, Xiaoxi, On the Usefulness of Guidance Reports (August 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4405292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4405292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
921
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,650
RANK
58,622
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies