Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Private Value of Financial Statement Statistics

46 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2023 Last revised: 12 Jun 2025

Russell Lundholm

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Xin Zheng

University of British Columbia, Sauder School of Business, Students

Date Written: June 02, 2025

Abstract

We develop a method for estimating the private value of knowing the future realization of some financial statistic, and then apply the measure to the familiar ratios from the DuPont decomposition of return on equity. The estimation is grounded in the standard rational expectations model, adapted to accommodate relative risk aversion, and produces an investor’s willingness to pay for information, denominated in units of a riskless asset (e.g. money). The method can accommodate different levels of investable wealth, multiple assets, and any information system regarding those assets. We use this method to document several interesting contrasts. An investor with $1M in wealth who already knows all the current DuPont ratios, and the most recent analyst forecast, would be willing to pay $2,861 to know all of next year’s ratios. This amount increases to $3,158
for firms below the median size, and when estimated by industry, has a median value of $3,690. In terms of the DuPont components, we find that knowing next year’s operating profit margin alone is worth $1,226, while next year’s leverage is worth only $170, and next year’s sales growth, $184. We show that the interactions among DuPont statistics have the predicted effect on the value of individual components. Finally, we demonstrate that the estimated value of financial statistics increases substantially when we assume the investor can trade in the firm asset and can also hedge using an industry ETF. Given that investors face trade-offs when deciding where to expend effort in financial statement analysis, these estimates help guide them to the most valuable signals.


Suggested Citation:

Lundholm, Russell and Zheng, Xin, Estimating the Private Value of Financial Statement Statistics (June 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4411838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4411838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
RANK
334,632
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies