Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond P<0.05: Scientific Inference in Accounting Research

Studies in Accounting Research #34, American Accounting Association

Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming

162 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023

Sanjay Kallapur

Indian School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

Although the limitations of p-values are well known, researchers continue to (mis)use them for lack of awareness of the alternatives. This monograph comprehensively explains the process of scientific inference, of which the p-value is just one component. The inference process is broader, consisting of research topic choice, assessing plausibility of the tested theory, choosing research designs having high diagnostic ability, and interpreting the results. The best researchers have always followed this process, and the monograph shows how it follows the Bayesian scheme of inference, although not quantified numerically.

Aimed at Ph.D. students and rising scholars, the monograph presents the issues in a non-technical language, with plenty of examples from accounting and other disciplines. It helps scholars to choose and motivate their research topic, identify better research designs, and communicate their findings.

Technical topics covered include well-known ones such as confidence intervals, as well as less-well-known ones such as Bayesianized p-values, false discovery rates, and hierarchical Bayesian models. They are presented in a non-technical manner, with applications. All computer code used is available online.

Qualitative topics covered include how to choose research topics and designs, and write the paper like a story. The monograph urges researchers to choose settings with a high signal-to-noise ratio, rather than get statistical power through large samples.

Overall, the monograph makes a compelling case for using the broader approach to scientific inference as a way of going beyond the limitations of p-values, and offers practical advice with plenty of examples on how to do so. It is written in an engaging and accessible style, making it a valuable resource for both novice and experienced researchers in accounting and related fields.

Keywords: p-values, replication crisis, registered reports, research design, scientific inference

JEL Classification: B40, C10, M40

Suggested Citation:

Kallapur, Sanjay, Beyond P<0.05: Scientific Inference in Accounting Research (December 7, 2022). Studies in Accounting Research #34, American Accounting Association, Indian School of Business WP Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4413565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4413565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,515
RANK
140,123
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies