Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corner-Cutters: Personally Tax Aggressive Executives and Corporate Regulatory Violations

59 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2023

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Enshuai Yu

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Date Written: April 18, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the relation between personally tax aggressive executives and corporate regulatory violations across a wide range of areas. We identify personally tax aggressive executives as those who consistently make uncommonly well-timed corporate stock donations, which prior work has shown are the result of insiders exploiting their private information and/or fraudulently backdating gifts to dates with a high stock price. We hypothesize and find evidence that executives with a propensity to “cut corners” on tax laws also make corporate-level decisions leading to more regulatory violations, such as underinvesting in workplace safety and environmental protection measures. We find the link between tax aggressive executives and corporate violations is mitigated in the presence of strong outside monitors and influential stakeholders. Moreover, we find that violations rise (fall) when a tax aggressive executive joins (leaves) the firm, supporting a causal interpretation. Our study contributes to the literature by 1) introducing a novel approach to identifying personally tax aggressive executives that continues to be useful in the post-SOX era, and 2) providing evidence that such executives drive increased regulatory violations in a wide range of areas.

Suggested Citation:

Yost, Benjamin and Yu, Enshuai, Corner-Cutters: Personally Tax Aggressive Executives and Corporate Regulatory Violations (April 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4422725 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4422725
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,216
RANK
120,270
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies