Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ChatGPT for Textual Analysis? How to use Generative LLMs in Accounting Research

Management Science, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 7 May 2023 Last revised: 26 Oct 2024

Ties de Kok

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Date Written: June 30, 2024

Abstract

Generative Large Language Models (GLLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 by OpenAI, are emerging as powerful tools for textual analysis tasks in accounting research. GLLMs can solve any textual analysis task solvable using non-generative methods, as well as tasks previously only solvable using human coding. While new and powerful, GLLMs also come with limitations and present new challenges that require care and due diligence. This paper highlights the applications of GLLMs for accounting research and compares them to existing methods. It also provides a framework on how to effectively use GLLMs by addressing key considerations such as model selection, prompt engineering, and ensuring construct validity. In a case study, I demonstrate the capabilities of GLLMs by detecting non-answers in earnings conference calls, a traditionally challenging task to automate. The new GPT method achieves an accuracy of 96% and reduces the non-answer error rate by 70% relative to the existing Gow et al. (2021) method. Finally, I discuss the importance of addressing bias, replicability, and data sharing concerns when using GLLMs. Taken together, this paper provides researchers, reviewers, and editors with the knowledge and tools to effectively use and evaluate GLLMs for academic research.

Keywords: Textual Analysis, AI, Machine Learning, GPT, ChatGPT, LLM

Suggested Citation:

de Kok, Ties, ChatGPT for Textual Analysis? How to use Generative LLMs in Accounting Research (June 30, 2024). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4429658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4429658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Vic Anand , Khrystyna Bochkay , Roman Chychyla , Andrew Leone
Using Python for Text Analysis in Accounting Research
Foundations and Trends® in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 3-4 , p. 128 - 359 Posted: 2020
Dzmitry Bahdanau , Kyunghyun Cho , Yoshua Bengio
Neural Machine Translation by Jointly Learning to Align and Translate Posted: 2016
John ( Bai , ) Jianqiu , Nicole M Boyson , Yi Cao , Miao Liu , Chi Wan
Executives vs. Chatbots: Unmasking Insights through Human-AI Differences in Earnings Conference Q&A
SSRN Scholarly Paper Posted: 2023
Darren Bernard , Elizabeth Blankespoor
A Modular Measure of Business Complexity
SSRN Scholarly Paper
Load more
9 Citations
Joanna (Jingwen) Zhao , Xinruo Wang
Unleashing efficiency and insights: Exploring the potential applications and challenges of ChatGPT in accounting
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 269 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Cameron F. Atkinson
ChatGPT and computational-based research: benefits, drawbacks, and machine learning applications
Discover Artificial Intelligence , volume 3 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Mirko Farina , Xiao Yu , Andrea Lavazza
Ethical considerations and policy interventions concerning the impact of generative AI tools in the economy and in society
AI and Ethics Posted: 2024
Crossref
Thorin Daniel , Jin Xuan
Responsible use of Generative AI in chemical engineering
Digital Chemical Engineering , volume 12 , p. 100168 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7,114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,917
RANK
2,282
9 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies