Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Another Way Forward: Comments on Ohlson's Critique of Empirical Accounting Research

Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium

22 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023 Last revised: 28 Jul 2023

Matthias Breuer

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: April 27, 2023

Abstract

Ohlson (2022) laments that the evidentiary quality of empirical accounting research is low due to inappropriate methods and practices, leaving seminar attendees and readers unpersuaded by presented or published articles. He suggests that the norms of the profession prevent a public recognition and discussion of those issues, thereby sustaining the poor state of empirical accounting research. I agree that some current empirical approaches and norms seem to hamper progress toward more convincing research. I provide a practical suggestion to possibly improve the state of empirical accounting research. I caution though that even with better methods and more honest research practices, we should not expect that any individual research article can provide conclusive answers to important accounting questions. Such progress in knowledge requires a body of high-quality and independent research.

Keywords: Accounting research, Hypothesis development, Bayesian inference

JEL Classification: C10, C11, C12, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Breuer, Matthias, Another Way Forward: Comments on Ohlson's Critique of Empirical Accounting Research (April 27, 2023). Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4431151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4431151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Abadie
Statistical Nonsignificance in Empirical Economics
American Economic Review: Insights , volume 2 , p. 193 - 208 Posted: 2020
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2022
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J M Barrios
Staggeringly Problematic: A Primer on Staggered DiD for Accounting Researchers Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
464
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,329
RANK
141,919
2 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies