Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Can Bayesian Inference Do for Accounting Research?

Journal of Financial Reporting Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023

Harm H. Schütt

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: April 30, 2023

Abstract

Bayesian statistics is a framework for combining new data with existing forms of information to yield more precise inferences than is possible using the data alone. Its greatest practical advantages are the flexibility it offers in incorporating prior information and beliefs, modeling heterogeneity, modeling latent constructs, and combining multiple data sources. The goal of this paper is twofold: first, to introduce accounting researchers to Bayesian inference and distinguish it from classical frequentist inference and, second, to showcase when Bayesian modeling can improve inferences in many applications that are of interest to accounting researchers.

Keywords: Accounting research, Bayesian statistics, quantifying uncertainty, measuring latent constructs

JEL Classification: C11, C53, G17, M40

Suggested Citation:

Schütt, Harm H., What Can Bayesian Inference Do for Accounting Research? (April 30, 2023). Journal of Financial Reporting Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4433503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,018
RANK
241,819
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies