Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hierarchical Bayesian Models in Accounting Research

Indian School of Business WP

28 Pages Posted: 12 May 2023

Bullipe Chintha

Singapore Institute of Technology

Sanjay Kallapur

Indian School of Business

Date Written: May 10, 2023

Abstract

Accounting parameters such as earnings response coefficients (ERC) are generally heterogeneous across firms. When panel data is available, the parameters are typically estimated using OLS with either pooled data which ignores parameter heterogeneity, or using firm-specific observations which tends to give noisy estimates. An alternative is to use Bayesian hierarchical models which preserve parameter heterogeneity but have the advantage of being less noisy than firm-specific OLS. Their advantage stems from the use of data about all other firms to form an informative prior about each firm’s parameter. In this paper, using a sample of 301 firms we compare the results from three Bayesian hierarchical models to OLS-based firm-specific ERCs. Our results show that the Bayesian models produce ERCs that reduce the number of negative ERCs from 48 to 6 and lower mean squared error in a hold-out sample by more than 90%. By enabling the estimation of less noisy firm-specific parameters, these models allow researchers to gain deeper insights into firm-level differences and their determinants. We show the formulation and estimation of these models step by step, with a discussion of the Stata commands involved. The Stata as well as R code is available online. We conclude by discussing the potential for such models to be applied to other contexts in accounting research.

Keywords: Hierarchical Bayesian models, Earnings Response Coefficients, Empirical priors

JEL Classification: M41, C11

Suggested Citation:

Chintha, Bullipe R. and Kallapur, Sanjay, Hierarchical Bayesian Models in Accounting Research (May 10, 2023). Indian School of Business WP, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4444627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4444627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
817
RANK
538,134
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies