Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extremal Quantiles and Stock Price Crashes

Forthcoming in Econometric Reviews

45 Pages Posted: 31 May 2023 Last revised: 28 Jul 2023

Panayiotis C. Andreou

Cyprus University of Technology

Sofia Anyfantaki

European Central Bank, Financial Research Division; Bank of Greece

Esfandiar Maasoumi

Emory University

Carlo Sala

ESADE Business School

Date Written: December 27, 2022

Abstract

We employ extreme value theory to identify stock price crashes, featuring low-probability events that produce large, firm-specific negative outliers in the conditional distribution. Traditional methods employ approximations under Gaussian assumptions and central moments. This is inherently imprecise and susceptible to misspecifications, especially for tail events. We instead propose new definitions and measures for crash risk based on conditional extremal quantiles (CEQ) of idiosyncratic stock returns. CEQ provide information on quantile specific impact of covariates, and shed light on prior empirical puzzles and shortcomings in identifying crashes. Additionally, to capture the magnitude of crashes, we provide an expected shortfall analysis of the losses due to crash. Our findings have important implications for a burgeoning literature in financial economics that relies on traditional approximations.

Keywords: Stock price crashes, Extremal quantiles, Extreme value theory, Quantile regression

JEL Classification: C14, D81, G11, G12, G32

Suggested Citation:

Andreou, Panayiotis C. and Anyfantaki, Sofia and Maasoumi, Esfandiar Essie and Sala, Carlo, Extremal Quantiles and Stock Price Crashes (December 27, 2022). Forthcoming in Econometric Reviews, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4464053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4464053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
C K Andreou , P C Andreou , N Lambertides
Financial distress risk and stock price crashes
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 67 Posted: 2021
P C Andreou , C Antoniou , J Horton , C Louca
Corporate governance and firmspecific stock price crashes
European Financial Management , volume 22 , p. 916 - 956 Posted: 2016
P C Andreou , N Lambertides , M Magidou
A critique of the agency theory viewpoint of stock price crash risk: The opacity and overinvestment channels
British Journal of Management Posted: 2022
P C Andreou , C Louca , A P Petrou
CEO age and stock price crash risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , p. 1287 - 1325 Posted: 2017
Load more
1 Citations
Panayiotis C. Andreou , Neophytos Lambertides , Marina Magidou
A Critique of the Agency Theory Viewpoint of Stock Price Crash Risk: The Opacity and Overinvestment Channels
British Journal of Management , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 2158 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
856
RANK
478,373
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies