Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
chatReport: Democratizing Sustainability Disclosure Analysis through LLM-based Tools

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-111

32 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023 Last revised: 21 Nov 2023

Jingwei Ni

ETH Zurich

Julia Bingler

University of Oxford

Chiara Colesanti Senni

Columbia University

Mathias Kraus

University of Erlangen-Nuremberg-Friedrich Alexander Universität Erlangen Nürnberg

Glen Gostlow

University of Zurich - Department Finance

Tobias Schimanski

University of Zurich

Dominik Stammbach

ETH Zürich

Saeid Vaghefi

University of Zurich

Qian Wang

University of Zurich - Department Finance; Inovest Partners AG

Nicolas Webersinke

Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Tobias Wekhof

ETH Zürich - CER-ETH - Center of Economic Research at ETH Zurich

Tingyu Yu

University of Zurich - Department Finance

Markus Leippold

University of Zurich; Swiss Finance Institute

Date Written: June 12, 2023

Abstract

This paper introduces a novel approach to enhance Large Language Models (LLMs) with expert knowledge to automate the analysis of corporate sustainability reports by benchmarking them against the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. Corporate sustainability reports are crucial in assessing organizations' environmental and social risks and impacts. However, analyzing these reports' vast amounts of information makes human analysis often too costly. As a result, only a few entities worldwide have the resources to analyze these reports, which could lead to a lack of transparency. While AI-powered tools can automatically analyze the data, they are prone to inaccuracies as they lack domain-specific expertise. This paper introduces a novel approach to enhance LLMs with expert knowledge to automate the analysis of corporate sustainability reports. We christen our tool \textsc{chatReport}, and apply it in a first use case to assess corporate climate risk disclosures following the TCFD recommendations. ChatReport results from collaborating with experts in climate science, finance, economic policy, and computer science, demonstrating how domain experts can be involved in developing AI tools. We make our prompt templates, generated data, and scores available to the public to encourage transparency.

Keywords: Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, Sustainability Report, Large Language Model, ChatGPT

Suggested Citation:

Ni, Jingwei and Bingler, Julia and Colesanti Senni, Chiara and Kraus, Mathias and Gostlow, Glen and Schimanski, Tobias and Stammbach, Dominik and Vaghefi, Saeid and Wang, Qian and Webersinke, Nicolas and Wekhof, Tobias and Yu, Tingyu and Leippold, Markus, chatReport: Democratizing Sustainability Disclosure Analysis through LLM-based Tools (June 12, 2023). Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-111, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4476733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4476733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,965
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,202
RANK
19,156
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies