Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An explanation of path analysis and recommendations for best practice

45 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2023 Last revised: 19 Aug 2025

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Carmen Payne-Mann

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

Path analysis has become increasingly popular, but many studies do not show a deep understanding of how path analysis works or the assumptions on which it relies. In this paper, we explain that path analysis is statistically equivalent to either ordinary least squares (OLS) when the researcher assumes uncorrelated errors, or instrumental variable estimation (IV) when the researcher allows correlated errors and obtains identification using exclusion restrictions. We then identify two problems with the way path analysis is used. First, studies claim that they use path analysis to provide evidence on the causal process, but they assume away endogeneity by imposing the unrealistic assumption of uncorrelated errors. Second, many studies do not explicitly disclose their key assumptions, including the assumptions of uncorrelated errors or exclusion restrictions. This non-disclosure makes it difficult for a reader to determine whether endogeneity is assumed away or whether the study is attempting to address endogeneity. We conclude with detailed guidance for researchers who are considering whether to use path analysis in their research.

Keywords: path analysis

JEL Classification: B41; M40

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Payne-Mann, Carmen, An explanation of path analysis and recommendations for best practice (August 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4476786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4476786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
H S Asay , R Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Yaohua Qin , He Xiao
The mandatory audit partner rotation policy and cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 44 , p. 107182 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Eric R. Condie , Ling Lei Lisic , Timothy A. Seidel , Jonathan Michael Truelson , Aleksandra B. Zimmerman
Does gender and ethnic diversity among audit partners influence office‐level audit personnel retention and audit quality?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 2477 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
794
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,209
RANK
71,741
2 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies