Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discovering the Optimal Set of Ratios to Use in Accounting-Based Models

International Journal of Society Systems Science, 10 (2), 110-131, 2018

29 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2023

Duarte Trigueiros

ISTAR-IUL, University Institute of Lisbon

Carolina Sam

Independent

Date Written: July 7, 2019

Abstract

Ratios are the prime tool of financial analysis. In predictive modelling tasks, however, the use of ratios raises difficulties, the most obvious being that, in a multivariate setting, there is no guarantee that the collection of ratios eventually selected as predictors will be optimal in any sense. Using, as starting-point, a formal characterization of cross-sectional accounting numbers, the paper shows how the Multilayer Perceptron can be trained to create internal representations which are an optimal set of ratios for a given modelling task. Experiments suggest that, when such ratios are utilized as predictors in well-known modelling tasks, performance improves on that reported by the extant literature.

Keywords: Multilayer Perceptron, Knowledge extraction, Financial analysis, Financial ratio, Firm size, Bankruptcy prediction, Financial misstatement detection, Earnings forecast.

JEL Classification: C45, G33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Trigueiros, Duarte and Sam, Carolina, Discovering the Optimal Set of Ratios to Use in Accounting-Based Models (July 7, 2019). International Journal of Society Systems Science, 10 (2), 110-131, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4501252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E Altman , G Sabato
Modelling credit risk for smes: evidence from the u.s. market
Abacus , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 332 - 357 Posted: 2007
F Amani , A Fadlalla
Data mining applications in accounting: a review of the literature and organizing framework
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 24 , p. 32 - 58 Posted: 2017
P Angelini , A Generale
On the evolution of firm size distributions
The American Economic Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 426 - 438 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
RANK
833,650
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies