Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Historically Stressed: How to Make Stress-Testing and Simulation More Intuitive and Insightful

31 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2023

Dane Rook

Stanford University

Dan Golosovker

Addepar

Date Written: July 10, 2023

Abstract

Conventional methods for stimulation and stress-testing place a significant burden on professional investors, through being: time and assumptions-intensive; unintuitive; and opaque. Moreover, these methods often deliver relatively weak practical insights. To counteract these shortcomings, we present a novel approach, the History-Based Multi-Lens (HBML) technique. We explain the mechanics and underpinnings of HBML and demonstrate its wide, straightforward usability. We also show how HBML can readily match and exceed the performance of conventional simulation/stress-testing methods (such as Monte Carlo). All of these factors suggest that HBML might deserve a place in professional investors' analytical toolkits.

Keywords: investing, analytics, simulation, stress-testing

Suggested Citation:

Rook, Dane and Golosovker, Dan, Historically Stressed: How to Make Stress-Testing and Simulation More Intuitive and Insightful (July 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4505415 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4505415
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
H Markowitz
Portfolio Selection
Journal of Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 91 Posted: 1952
A Monk , D Rook
The Long-Term Investor: Navigating Markets with Resilience and Knowledge
D Rook , A S-Y. In , Monk
The Resilience Manifesto: Integrating ESG and Risk Management, in Investment Portfolios and Organizations
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
875
RANK
317,057
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies