Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proportionate Growth and the Theoretical Foundations of Financial Ratios

Abacus (Wiley), Vol. 38, No. 3, pp. 297-316, 2002

22 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023

Stuart McLeay

University of Sussex; The University of Sydney

Duarte Trigueiros

ISTAR-IUL, University Institute of Lisbon

Date Written: July 11, 2002

Abstract

The article proposes a theoretical framework for understanding financial ratios, showing that the multiplicative character of the financial variables from which financial ratios are constructed is a necessary condition of valid ratio usage, not just an assumption supported by evidence. Also, by assuming that firm size is a measurable statistical effect, the article offers an informed reappraisal of the limitations of financial ratios, pa1ticularly the well-known limitation of proportionality. The article is divided into two parts, one where ratio components are viewed as deterministic variables and the other where they are random. Such an approach allows the characteristics of ratios to be more easily understood before generalizing the relationship between ratio components to encompass randomness. In the second part. when variability introduced by firm size is treated as a random effect, it is shown that if the accounting variables Y and X used to calculate a financial ratio Y/X are exponential Brownian motion, and if continuous growth rates are equal and proportionate to firm size, this may lead to ratios which are asymmetric, but which do not necessarily drift.

Keywords: Firm Size, Financial Ratio, Ratio Validity, Financial Analysis, Value-relevance of accounting information

JEL Classification: C21, C22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

McLeay, Stuart and Trigueiros, Duarte, Proportionate Growth and the Theoretical Foundations of Financial Ratios (July 11, 2002). Abacus (Wiley), Vol. 38, No. 3, pp. 297-316, 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4506810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 Posted: 1968
P Andersen , Ø Borgan , R Gill , N Keiding
Statistical Models Based on Counting Processes Posted: 1993
R Ball , R Watts
Some Time Series Properties of Accounting Income
The Journal of Finance , volume 27 , issue 3 Posted: 1972
P Barnes
Methodological Implications of Non-Normally Distributed Financial Ratios
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
517
RANK
759,411
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies