Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Economic Insignificance of a Null Result: Effect Size Confidence

38 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023 Last revised: 15 May 2025

Jeffrey J. Burks

University of Notre Dame

Date Written: July 11, 2023

Abstract

This note formulates a method called Effect Size Confidence (ESC) that provides confidence about whether a null result reflects an effect that is economically insignificant. Null or statistically insignificant results are more credible when coupled with evidence that the effects under study also are economically insignificant. Under the ESC method, the researcher creates a menu of hypothetical effect sizes, and then derives the statistical confidence that the population exhibits each effect size or larger, given the null sample result. The method allows researchers to provide confidence levels for various effect sizes, which in some studies could provide high confidence against large effect sizes, thus improving the credibility of the null result.

Keywords: null result, statistical significance, confidence interval, effect size, power analysis, Bayesian analysis

JEL Classification: C10, C12, M4

Suggested Citation:

Burks, Jeffrey J., Assessing the Economic Insignificance of a Null Result: Effect Size Confidence (July 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4507005 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4507005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
C J Albers , H A L Kiers , D Van Ravenzwaaij
Credible confidence: A pragmatic view on the frequentist vs Bayesian debate
Collabra: Psychology , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2018
K D Allee , M D Deangelis , J R Moon
Disclosure "Scriptability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 363 - 425 Posted: 2018
D Bernard , N L Cade , F Hodge
Investor behavior and the benefits of direct stock ownership
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 431 - 466 Posted: 2018
R Bloomfield , K Rennekamp , B Steenhoven
No system is perfect: Understanding how registration-based editorial processes affect reproducibility and investment in research quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 313 - 362 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,206
RANK
254,445
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies