Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capturing Firm Economic Events

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4510212

74 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2023 Last revised: 17 Jul 2025

Khrystyna Bochkay

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Roman Chychyla

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Anthony Joffre

University of Miami, School of Business Administration, Department of Accounting, Students

Jake Krupa

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

A prevalent challenge in the disclosure literature is disentangling firms' disclosure choices from the changes in firm economics and governance that drive them. To better capture events that change firms' underlying economics, we propose a parsimonious and dynamic measure based on the frequency of \emph{event-driven} 8-K items. We validate our measure by showing its association with changes in future firm performance and market participants’ uncertainty about that performance. We then demonstrate the measure's significant association with changes in firm mandatory and voluntary disclosures. Importantly, our measure is incremental and complementary to traditional measures of firm performance, complexity, operations, disclosure, and historical uncertainty. Next, we use two existing disclosure settings to demonstrate how our measure of firm economic events can enhance researchers’ ability to capture a firm’s underlying economics, resulting in a stronger empirical identification of disclosure choices. Finally, we demonstrate how our parsimonious measure can be further refined using large language models to weight events based on their semantic context. Overall, our measure of firm economic events can improve researchers’ ability to capture a firm’s underlying economics, resulting in a stronger empirical identification of disclosure choices.

Keywords: Material corporate events, Firm economics, Corporate disclosure, 8-K filings, Future performance, Fundamental uncertainty, Analysts

JEL Classification: M41, D83, M00, M20

Suggested Citation:

Bochkay, Khrystyna and Chychyla, Roman and Joffre, Anthony and Krupa, Jake, Capturing Firm Economic Events (July 15, 2025). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4510212, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4510212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4510212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
147 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
M Ahn , T E Christensen , R G Johnson , M F Lewis-Western
The future performance implications of Non-GAAP firms' investments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 79 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2025
K D Allee , M D Deangelis , J R Moon
Disclosure "scriptability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 363 - 430 Posted: 2018
K Amin , J D Eshleman , P Guo
Investor sentiment, misstatements, and auditor behavior
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 483 - 517 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
RANK
221,251
147 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies