Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Automating Evaluation of Skill Assessment to Promote Skill Acquisition in the Area of Data Analytics Automation

25 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023

Joshua G. Coyne

University of Central Arkansas

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Brigham Villanueva

Brigham Young University

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 25, 2023

Abstract

As accounting increasingly embraces automation and data analytics, proficient skill assessment remains a challenge. We introduce an automated tool that streamlines the evaluation of Alteryx workflows. Utilizing the design science methodology, our tool effectively executes and compares Alteryx workflows against a solution, providing score and feedback. Validation demonstrates remarkable gains; our tool is error-free and 9 to 146 times faster than manual evaluation. The tool’s efficiency, accuracy, and user-friendliness make it much more feasible to assign unstructured Alteryx assignments for student development. Enhanced technology skills will promote hiring and productivity gains associated with automation in accounting.

Keywords: Alteryx, Automation, Grading, Design Science

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Coyne, Joshua G. and Summers, Scott L. and Villanueva, Brigham and Wood, David A., Automating Evaluation of Skill Assessment to Promote Skill Acquisition in the Area of Data Analytics Automation (July 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4520670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4520670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
985
RANK
382,931
3 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies