Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Operational Efficiency

54 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2023 Last revised: 19 Nov 2024

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Jonathan Berkovitch

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Doron Israeli

IDC Herzliya - Arison School of Business; Nazarbayev University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

We address whether and why a firm’s operational efficiency, OpEff, has information content for investors and what role that information plays in the price discovery process at quarterly earnings announcements. We measure OpEff using the cash conversion cycle (CCC) multiplied by –1, such that higher OpEff reflects better operational efficiency. Higher OpEff is associated with higher abnormal stock returns and trading volume at earnings announcements and with higher future earnings and cash flows, which helps explain the positive return and volume relations. Higher OpEff also is associated with larger post-earnings-announcement drift and less timely incorporation of information in earnings announcements into stock prices. However, this relation is largely attributable to firms that announce bad earnings news. Together, we infer that operational efficiency is informative to investors because it comprises forward-looking information about earnings and cash flows and that announcements of improvements in OpEff along with bad earnings news impede the price discovery process. 

Keywords: Operational efficiency, Information content, Price discovery

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E. and Berkovitch, Jonathan and Israeli, Doron, The Information Content of Operational Efficiency (September 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4558856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Y Alan , G P Gao , V Gaur
Does inventory productivity predict future stock returns? A retailing industry perspective
Management Science , volume 60 , p. 2416 - 2434 Posted: 2014
A Ali
The incremental information content of earnings, working capital from operations, and cash flows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , p. 61 - 74 Posted: 1994
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
M E Barth , W H Beaver , J R Hand , W R Landsman
Accruals, accounting-based valuation models, and the prediction of equity values
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 311 - 345 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,985
RANK
145,263
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies