Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Dual Effects in Accounting Research: Limitations of Absolute Residuals and the Role of Quantile Regression

56 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2023 Last revised: 12 Oct 2025

Bing Chen

Wenzhou-Kean University - Wenzhou Kean Business School

Wei Chen

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Sam Melessa

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 10, 2023

Abstract

Many accounting studies examine variables hypothesized to have dual effects on outcomes. For example, numerous studies predict that audit quality reduces accruals when discretionary accruals are positive and increases accruals when discretionary accruals are negative. Yet there is a limited understanding of the potential complications with the common research designs used to estimate dual effects. Among the various research designs, the most common approach involves using the absolute values of residuals generated from a first-step OLS regression as the dependent variable in a second-step regression. This two-step approach, however, does not properly orthogonalize first-and second-step regressors, potentially producing biased coefficient estimates that impair inferences. Using simulation and two accounting settings, we show that single-step quantile regression provides an effective solution by accommodating dual effects and eliminating the biases associated with the common two-step procedures.

Keywords: residuals, absolute value, discretionary accruals, earnings management, financial reporting quality, abnormal investment, investment efficiency, quantile regression

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Bing and Chen, Wei and Hribar, Paul and Melessa, Sam, Measuring Dual Effects in Accounting Research: Limitations of Absolute Residuals and the Role of Quantile Regression (October 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4572590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4572590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
T Adrian , M Brunnermeier
CoVaR. Fed Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports Posted: 2011
A S Ahmed , Y Li , N Xu
Tick size and financial reporting quality in small-cap firms: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , p. 869 - 914 Posted: 2020
S C Anagnostopoulou , L Trigeorgis , A E Tsekrekos
Enhancement in a Firm's Information Environment via Options Trading and the Efficiency of Corporate Investment
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 149 Posted: 2023
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate Governance and the Information Environment: Evidence from State Antitakeover Laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,866
RANK
123,063
2 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies