Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A General Solution to the Quasi Linear Screening Problem

Université Paris-Dauphine Research Paper No. 4589781

27 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2023

Guillaume Carlier

Université Paris Dauphine

Xavier Dupuis

Université de Bourgogne

Jean-Charles Rochet

University of Toulouse Capitole - Toulouse School of Economics

John E. Thanassoulis

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School; UK Competition and Markets Authority; Oxford-Man Institute, University of Oxford

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

We provide an algorithm for solving multidimensional screening problems which are intractable analytically. The algorithm is a primal-dual algorithm which alternates between optimising the primal problem of the surplus extracted by the principal and the dual problem of the optimal assignment to deliver to the agents for a given surplus. We illustrate the algorithm by solving (i) the generic monopolist price discrimination problem and (ii) an optimal tax problem covering income and savings taxes when citizens differ in multiple dimensions.

Keywords: Multidimensional screening, algorithm, numerical methods, price discrimination, optimal tax

JEL Classification: C02, H21, D42

Suggested Citation:

Carlier, Guillaume and Dupuis, Xavier and Rochet, Jean-Charles and Thanassoulis, John E., A General Solution to the Quasi Linear Screening Problem (October 1, 2023). Université Paris-Dauphine Research Paper No. 4589781, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4589781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4589781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
582
RANK
564,093
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Universite Paris-Dauphine Research Papers Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies