Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Transcripts to Insights: Uncovering Corporate Risks Using Generative AI

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 23-19

Fama-Miller Working Paper

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2023-132

61 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2023 Last revised: 17 Nov 2024

Alex G. Kim

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

Maximilian Muhn

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Valeri V. Nikolaev

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

Date Written: October 26, 2024

Abstract

We explore the value of generative AI in uncovering corporate risks. We use a Large Language Model (LLM) to construct firm-level measures of political, climate, and AI-related risks. The proposed measures possess significant information content and outperform dictionary-based measures in predicting firm-level volatility and explaining investment decisions. Information in risk assessments dominates that in risk summaries, establishing the value of general AI knowledge. Our measures continue to perform well outside the LLM's training window and at the aggregate level. They are also priced in equity markets. Collectively, generative AI offers an effective solution to the measurement of hard-to-quantify corporate risks.

Keywords: GPT, ChatGPT, large language models, generative AI, risk information, firm-level risk exposure, conference call, political risk, AI risk, climate change risk

JEL Classification: C45, D81, G12, G30, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Alex G. and Muhn, Maximilian and Nikolaev, Valeri V., From Transcripts to Insights: Uncovering Corporate Risks Using Generative AI (October 26, 2024). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 23-19, Fama-Miller Working Paper, University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2023-132, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4593660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4593660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,771
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,475
RANK
6,741
4 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies