Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentives, Assessment, and the Reliability of Statistical Significance Examinations of Evidence

40 Pages Posted: 1 May 2024 Last revised: 24 May 2024

William M. Cready

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: April 30, 2024

Abstract

This analysis evaluates the implications of researcher hypothesis selection incentives on the inferential value of empirical analyses. It illustrates the strength with which a “statistically significant” outcome objective incentivizes researcher aversion to testing possibly true null hypotheses. Mechanically, such aversion reduces the number of true nulls selected for testing, which in turn reduces type I error rates (i.e., erroneous rejections of true null hypotheses). Left unfettered, it leads to settings wherein researchers almost always test false null hypotheses. That is, studies routinely produce reliable “falsifications” of a priori false hypotheses, a practice that transparently lacks inferential relevance. Collectively, the analysis illustrates the importance of comprehensive understanding of researcher incentives and research assessment practices when evaluating the reliability and relevance of findings obtained from Null Hypothesis Significance Test based examinations of evidence.

Keywords: False postives, priors, Statistical Significance Based Inference, methodology

JEL Classification: B23, B40, M40

Suggested Citation:

Cready, William M., Incentives, Assessment, and the Reliability of Statistical Significance Examinations of Evidence (April 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4595552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4595552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
J Berkson
Some difficulties of interpretation encountered in the application of the chi-square test
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 33 , p. 526 - 542 Posted: 1938
A Y Chen
The limits of p-hacking: some thought experiments
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , p. 2442 - 2480 Posted: 2021
J Cohen
The earth is round (p < .05)
American Psychologist , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 997 - 103 Posted: 1994
W Cready
Replication of quasi-experimental population studies: motivation and guidance
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 56 , issue 3 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
476
RANK
644,482
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies