Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Detecting and Predicting Structural Changes and Breaks

17 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2023

Peter Kotzian

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf; Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: October 16, 2023

Abstract

Much of the daily business of data scientists is about extracting patterns in data as a basis for decision makers in various, mostly economic, settings. Aligned with this task, most applications of machine learning and artificial intelligence are limited to extracting patterns in data which remain basically stable in terms of drivers of the events under consideration. This focus is inherent to the situation data science is confronted with: existing data covers the past. The emergence of new types of cases, e.g., in unsupervised clustering notwithstanding, the employed algorithm extracts a more or less complex set of drivers from the training data, using this to predict upcoming cases. However, while these tasks are central to data science, they are only part of the picture. Fads, but also economic and political shocks induce changes, for instance create new types of events (e.g., a new type of customer) and also changes the mechanisms driving known types of events (e.g., a loan default). Thus, a crucial, but difficult subject for data science, are changes in the patterns: when does a model extracted from the past does no longer fit the current situation? This paper elaborates on the notion of a structural change, by considering, first, What constitutes a structural change, second, Can structural changes in the data be predicted? Using data from a drug store chain as an example, we identify structural changes, using four definitions of the notion, and investigate possible triggers for structural changes. We discuss implications for data science standard applications.

Keywords: C18, C23, C38, C45, C53

Suggested Citation:

Kotzian, Peter, On Detecting and Predicting Structural Changes and Breaks (October 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4603664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4603664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
C.-S J Chu , M Stinchcombe , H White
Monitoring Structural Change
Econometrica , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 1045 - 1065 Posted: 1996
M Ester , H.-P Kriegel , J Sander , X Xu , E Simoudis , J Han , U M Fayyad
A density-based algorithm for discovering clusters in large spatial databases with noise
Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , p. 226 - 231 Posted: 1996
M Krakowski , G Klassen , M Bravidor , S Conrad
Predicting Erroneous Financial Statements Using a Density-Based Clustering Approach
Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Business and Information Management , volume 2020 , p. 89 - 94 Posted: 2020
E Maasoumi , A Zaman , M Ahmed
Tests for structural change, aggregation, and homogeneity
Economic Modelling , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 1382 - 1391 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
RANK
692,196
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Computational & Applied Mathematics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies