Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Standardizing XBRL Financial Reporting Tags with Natural Language Processing

26 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2023 Last revised: 12 Dec 2024

Richard Wang

St. John Fisher University

Date Written: December 12, 2023

Abstract

This paper proposes a machine learning (ML) based approach to automatically standardize tens of thousands of custom XBRL tags by mapping them to the closest standard XBRL tags in the US Financial Reporting Taxonomy. It resolves a practical problem faced by many financial analysts, investors, regulators, and researchers when using XBRL data for financial analyses and modeling. The algorithm utilizes three natural language processing (NLP) techniques: (1) Bag-Of-Words (TF-IDF), (2) Word2Vec Embedding, and (3) Huang et al.’s1 state-of-the-art FinBERT. The algorithm is implemented for all US custom tags between 2009 and 2022, and an evaluation of the results shows the algorithm is fast, efficient, and has a reasonable level of accuracy.

Keywords: XBR, tag, custom tag, natural language processing, machine learning

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Richard, Standardizing XBRL Financial Reporting Tags with Natural Language Processing (December 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4613085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4613085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,288
RANK
127,186
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies