Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reproducibility in Management Science

60 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Miloš Fišar

Masaryk University

Ben Greiner

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Christoph Huber

Aalto University - Department of Finance

Elena Katok

The University of Texas at Dallas

Ali I. Ozkes

Vienna University of Economics and Business; SKEMA Business School

Management Science Reproducibility Collaboration

Independent

Date Written: November 1, 2023

Abstract

With the help of more than 700 reviewers we assess the reproducibility of nearly 500 articles published in the journal Management Science before and after the introduction of a new Data and Code Disclosure policy in 2019. When considering only articles for which data accessibility and hard- and software requirements were not an obstacle for reviewers, the results of more than 95% of articles under the new disclosure policy could be fully or largely computationally reproduced. However, for almost 29% of articles at least part of the dataset was not accessible for the reviewer. Considering all articles in our sample reduces the share of reproduced articles to 68%. The introduction of the disclosure policy increased reproducibility significantly, since only 12% of articles accepted before the introduction of the disclosure policy voluntarily provided replication materials, out of which 55% could be (largely) reproduced. Substantial heterogeneity in reproducibility rates across different fields is mainly driven by differences in dataset accessibility. Other reasons for unsuccessful reproduction attempts include missing code, unresolvable code errors, weak or missing documentation, but also soft- and hardware requirements and code complexity. Our findings highlight the importance of journal code and data disclosure policies, and suggest potential avenues for enhancing their effectiveness.

Keywords: reproducibility, replication, crowd science

JEL Classification: A10, B40, M20

Suggested Citation:

Fišar, Miloš and Greiner, Ben and Huber, Christoph and Katok, Elena and Ozkes, Ali I. and Reproducibility Collaboration, Management Science, Reproducibility in Management Science (November 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4620006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4620006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J Ankel-Peters , N Fiala , F Neubauer
Do economists replicate?
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 212 , p. 219 - 232 Posted: 2023
R Artner , T Verliefde , S Steegen , S Gomes , F Traets , F Tuerlinckx , W Vanpaemel
The reproducibility of statistical results in psychological research: An investigation using unpublished raw data
Psychological Methods , volume 26 , issue 5 , p. 527 - 546 Posted: 2021
A Brodeur , M Lé , M Sangnier , Y Zylberberg
Star wars: The empirics strike back
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2016
C F Camerer , A Dreber , E Forsell , T H Ho , J Huber , M Johannesson
Evaluating replicability of laboratory experiments in economics
Science , volume 351 , issue 6280 , p. 1433 - 1436 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,537
RANK
143,403
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies