Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Cash Flows: A Guide for Researchers

60 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023 Last revised: 29 May 2025

Ciao-Wei Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Samuel Melessa

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

Heejin Ohn

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: May 29, 2025

Abstract

Cash flows play an important role in the accounting and finance literature. They are a major component of earnings, serve as a benchmark for earnings and accruals, and are an input to firm valuation. Although accrual measurement has been extensively studied, research on cash flow measurement remains limited. We review cash flow proxies researchers use in prior literature and highlight the importance of (i) identifying and defining the cash flow construct of interest based on the underlying research question and other constructs of interest and (ii) selecting a cash flow proxy that minimizes measurement error and maps well into its construct. We also examine the challenges researchers face in measuring cash flows and demonstrate how measurement choices can affect the magnitude of coefficient estimates and statistical inferences. Finally, our study provides a framework researchers can follow to strengthen the construct validity of cash flow proxies.  

Keywords: Measurement Error, Construct Validity, Cash Flow Proxies

JEL Classification: M41, G30, C01

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ciao-Wei and Melessa, Samuel and Mergenthaler, Richard Dean and Ohn, Heejin, Measuring Cash Flows: A Guide for Researchers (May 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4631410 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4631410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
J Almamy , J Aston , L N Ngwa
An evaluation of Altman's Z-score using cash flow ratio to predict corporate failure amid the recent financial crisis: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 36 , p. 278 - 285 Posted: 2016
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
P R Bahnson , P B W Miller , B P Budge
Nonarticulation in cash flow statements and implications for education
research and practice. Accounting Horizons , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,878
RANK
158,049
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies