Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
TIMESᵉ: A New Reference Model for Measuring the Sustainability Performance of Banks

21 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2023

Binh Cong Van

Ho Chi Minh City Open University; HDbank

Christopher Gan

Lincoln University (NZ)

Cuong Nguyen

Lincoln University (NZ)

Date Written: November 21, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: This paper proposes a new sustainable business model's component to measure bank sustainability performance.

Design/methodology/approach: The approach to developing the new model is qualitative analysis combined with a comprehensive sustainable business model literature review and case studies.

Findings - The proposed model embraces six dimensions: technological, institutional, management, economic, social, and environmental, and is called TIMESᵉ. It is a dynamic and balanced model, and these attributes allow it to be used flexibly in the sustainability context regardless of the ever-developing sustainability concept through time. It is also a reference for sustainable research models in other industries.

Originality/value: The paper covers the research gap that most current sustainable business models for bank studies are missing is to focusing on economic, social, and environmental dimensions only. This focus does not reflect the entire meaning of the sustainability concept and sustainable banking activity.

Practitioners will find the TIMESᵉ model useful because it suggests an approach to measure bank sustainability performance quantitatively from six dimensions. From this model, banks need to upgrade their reporting system to the standard level, where the sustainability reports provide all the information to serve the model. A transparent and responsible reporting system is one of the prerequisites of sustainable banking.

Keywords: Bank, sustainability, business model, TIMESᵉ

JEL Classification: 016

Suggested Citation:

Van, Binh Cong and Gan, Christopher and Nguyen, Cuong, TIMESᵉ: A New Reference Model for Measuring the Sustainability Performance of Banks (November 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4639332 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4639332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A Aagaard
Sustainable business models: Innovation, implementation and success Posted: 2018
A Afful , E Afful , C Turkson
A TOPSIS extension framework for re-conceptualizing sustainability measurement Posted: 2016
E A Al-Homaidi , M I Tabash , N H Farhan , F A Almaqtari
Bank-specific and macro-economic determinants of profitability of Indian commercial banks: A panel data approach
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 6 , issue 1 Posted: 2018
D Andreini , C Bettinelli
Business model innovation: From a systematic literature review to future research directions
Journal of Management & Governance , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 785 - 792 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
RANK
472,791
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies