Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond the Blackwell Order in Dichotomies

9 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Andrew Kosenko

Marist College - Accounting, Economics, & Finance

Abstract

I establish a translation invariance property of the Blackwell order for dichotomies, show that garbling experiments reduces the norm of their difference, and show that the norm of the distance from the identity matrix may be interpreted as a measure of informativeness. The better experiment is closer to the fully revealing experiment; this measure coincides with Blackwell’s order, is complete, and prior-independent.

Keywords: Blackwell experiments, information orders, matrix norms.

Suggested Citation:

Kosenko, Andrew, Beyond the Blackwell Order in Dichotomies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4649851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4649851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
David Blackwell
Comparison of Experiments
Proceedings of the Second Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Probability , p. 93 - 102 Posted: 1951
David Blackwell
Equivalent Comparisons of Experiments
Ann. Math. Statist , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 272 Posted: 1953
Alexander Bloedel , Ilya Segal
Persuading a Rationally Inattentive Agent. Working paper
Andreas Blume , Oliver J Board , Kohei Kawamura
Noisy talk
Theoretical Economics , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 395 - 440 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
259
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies