Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A nonparametric test for rough volatility

55 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Carsten H. Chong

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information Systems, Business Statistics and Operations Management

Viktor Todorov

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Date Written: December 11, 2023

Abstract

We develop a nonparametric test for deciding whether volatility of an asset follows a standard semimartingale process, with paths of finite quadratic variation, or a rough process with paths of infinite quadratic variation. The test utilizes the fact that volatility is rough if and only if volatility increments are negatively autocorrelated at high frequencies. It is based on the sample autocovariance of increments of spot volatility estimates computed from high-frequency asset return data. By showing a feasible CLT for this statistic under the null hypothesis of semimartingale volatility paths, we construct a test with fixed asymptotic size and an asymptotic power equal to one. The test is derived under very general conditions for the data-generating process. In particular, it is robust to jumps with arbitrary activity and to the presence of market microstructure noise. In an application of the test to SPY high-frequency data, we find evidence for rough volatility.

Keywords: high-frequency data, Itô semimartingale, characteristic function, nonparametric test, rough volatility

JEL Classification: C14, C22, C58, G12

Suggested Citation:

Chong, Carsten H. and Todorov, Viktor, A nonparametric test for rough volatility (December 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4660138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4660138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Y Aït-Sahalia , J Jacod
Testing whether jumps have finite or infinite activity
Ann. Statist , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 1689 - 1719 Posted: 2011
Y Aït-Sahalia , J Jacod
High-Frequency Financial Econometrics Posted: 2014
T G Andersen , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , P Labys
Modeling and forecasting realized volatility
Econometrica , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 579 - 625 Posted: 2003
T G Andersen , T Su , V Todorov , Z Zhang
Intraday periodic volatility curves
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 119 , issue 546 , p. 1181 - 1191 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,034
RANK
268,675
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies