Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposition of an Enhanced Model on the Institutionalization of Management Accounting Practices

17 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Padmasiri Jasenthu Kankanamge

Postgraduate Institute of Management (PIM)

Roshan Ajward

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: December 28, 2023

Abstract

The new institutional sociology (NIS) theory that is popularly and increasingly being used for conducting research in the accounting discipline by scholars spells out that three institutional isomorphic macro-environmental pressures positively influence the institutionalization of rules, norms, practices, etc. in organizations. Yet, puzzlement is that, despite invaluable benefits provided by management accounting (MA), empirical evidence proves that there is a gap between the theory and the practice of MA in public institutions (PIs) in developing country context, resulting in a host of negative consequences at organizational, national and international levels. Thus, based on literature findings, this theoretical paper postulates that the presumed relationship between three isomorphic pressures and institutionalization of management accounting practices (MAPs) is moderated by four conformity methods which are proved to be dependent on the economic advancement of the country concerned. Accordingly, the very purpose of this paper is to showcase an enhanced model by extending the NIS theory as a means of addressing the unexplained as noted above by this theory. While this study provides a useful framework for further studies as; testing the model empirically at different sites, levels, and scales that would lead to seeing new vistas both, in theoretical and empirical domains, it will help expand the existing body of knowledge of the NIS theory by providing an expanded perspective regarding the application of institutional isomorphism mechanism with moderating effects exerted by four conformity methods. Moreover, findings of this endeavor showing the level of the adoption of MAPs in PIs will be of paramount importance to diverse of key stakeholders in the developing country context.

Keywords: management accounting, public institutions, institutional theory, isomorphism, conformity methods

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Jasenthu Kankanamge, Padmasiri and Ajward, Roshan, Proposition of an Enhanced Model on the Institutionalization of Management Accounting Practices (December 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4677753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4677753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
Management accounting practices in the British food and drinks industry
British Food Journal , volume 108 , issue 5 , p. 336 - 357 Posted: 2006
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther , D Colin
Parliamentary series No. 236 of The seventh Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Advances in management accounting , volume 15 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2006
M Daniel , Hall , W Scott , Richard , Paul J Dimaggio , Powell , W Walter
Early stages in the institutionalization of integrated project delivery, Engineering Project Organization Conference
Household Income and Expenditure Survey, pp. i -vii , volume 48 , p. 147 - 160 Posted: 1983-04
K B M Fonseka
Management accounting systems in Sri Lanka: An analysis of sophistication, determinants and performance. A thesis submitted to the Postgraduate Institute of Management, University of Sri Jayawardenapura in partial fulfilment of the requirements of the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration
Library of USJP Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
352
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies