Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of Linear Regression Models in Substantive Analytical Procedures for Auditing Asset Management

25 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2024

Hernán Maestro Rizo

Independent

Date Written: December 29, 2023

Abstract

The aim of this work is to apply linear regression models to the returns of net asset values (NAV) of some assets, in order to verify if they comply with their investment policy approved if there is a benchmark to be followed, and to try to forecast the NAV for one week in order to generate an expectation. This is why this work tries to apply ISA 520 about Analytical Procedures in audit engagements, as this rule allows the use of advance statistical techniques in these procedures.

Keywords: Model, asset, analytical procedure, benchmark, forecast

JEL Classification: C22, G17, M42

Suggested Citation:

Maestro Rizo, Hernán, Application of Linear Regression Models in Substantive Analytical Procedures for Auditing Asset Management (December 29, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4679186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4679186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Bank , Spain
Consultation of net asset values and document of fundamental data for the associate
Consultation of exchange rates; www.bde.es; 10 of Posted: 2023-11
Bloomberg
Consultation of indexes Posted: 2023-11
J Brooks
Introductory Econometrics for Finance, 2 nd edition Posted: 2006
J Hernández , M Herrador
Econometría de series temporales, 1 st edition Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
RANK
622,742
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies