Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Ties and Publications in Top Accounting Journals

Forthcoming: Management Science

57 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2024 Last revised: 13 Feb 2025

Robert Lowell Whited

North Carolina State University

Date Written: December 20, 2024

Abstract

Academic journals certify and disseminate scientific knowledge. However, institutional ties between journals and universities can lead to conflicts of interest that compromise peer review. I consider publication patterns in the “Top 3” accounting journals in light of the journals’ governance structures and institutional ties. The Accounting Review (TAR), governed by the American Accounting Association (AAA), has no university affiliations. Journal of Accounting and Economics (JAE) and Journal of Accounting Research (JAR) are private journals with longstanding editorial ties to specific universities: the University of Rochester, the University of Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology for JAE and the University of Chicago for JAR. For publications from 2000–2022, I find that journal-affiliated authors (current faculty and recent PhDs from journal-affiliated universities) publish disproportionately in their affiliate journal. Further analysis suggests that this pattern does not appear to be attributable primarily to authors’ journal submission preferences, particularly for JAR affiliates. In fact, JAR affiliates publish their least cited work in JAR (relative to TAR and JAE), and affiliate articles in JAR receive significantly fewer citations than articles in JAR by authors from top institutions unaffiliated with JAR. Results further suggest that institutional ties may be particularly impactful for pre-tenure PhD affiliates and for the publication of dissertations. The results are consistent with the idea that institutional ties may influence the publication process in accounting journals, particularly at JAR, where institutional affiliations are formalized and concentrated in one institution. 

Keywords: Accounting Research; Accounting Journals; Governance

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Whited, Robert Lowell, Institutional Ties and Publications in Top Accounting Journals (December 20, 2024). Forthcoming: Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4682868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4682868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
J A Barrick , N W Mecham , S L Summers , D A Wood
Ranking accounting journals by topical area and methodology
Journal of Information Systems , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2019
J Barrios , F Lancieri , J Levy , S Shashank , T Valletti , L Zingales
The Conflict-of-Interest Discount in the Marketplace of Ideas Posted: 2024
D Bethmann , F Bransch , M Kvasnicka , A Sadrieh
Home Bias in Top Economics Journals Posted: 2023
J Brogaard , J Engelberg , C Parsons
Networks and productivity: Causal evidence from editor rotations
Journal Financial Economics , volume 111 , issue 1 , p. 251 - 270 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,532
RANK
34,946
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies