Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Consumers Use ESG Disclosure? Evidence from a Randomized Field Experiment with Everyday Product Purchases


Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 24-02

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2024-04

Forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting and Economics

90 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2024 Last revised: 7 Jul 2025

Sinja Leonelli

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Maximilian Muhn

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Thomas Rauter

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Gurpal S. Sran

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: July 02, 2025

Abstract

We combine a large-scale field experiment with a customized survey to study how consumers use and respond to ESG disclosure. In a sample of over 24,000 U.S. households, we first establish that while consumers moderately prefer to purchase from ESG-responsible firms, they rarely consult corporate reporting directly and face various frictions in learning about firm-level activities. In our field experiment, we then inform households about real firm-disclosed activities through several randomized information treatments. Consumers increase their purchase intent when exogenously presented with positive signals about environmental, social, and—to a lesser extent—governance activities. Full ESG reports increase purchase intentions only for consumers who choose to view them. After the experiment, consumers increase their actual purchases, but these effects are small, short-lived, and only materialize for social signals and viewed ESG reports. Through a follow-up survey, we provide explanations for why consumers (do not) change their behavior after our experiment.

Keywords: Consumers, Disclosure, Field Experiment, ESG Reporting, Non-Financial Information, Financial Reporting, Financial Information, Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Leonelli, Sinja and Muhn, Maximilian and Rauter, Thomas and Sran, Gurpal, How Do Consumers Use ESG Disclosure? Evidence from a Randomized Field Experiment with Everyday Product Purchases
(July 02, 2025). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 24-02, University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2024-04, Forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4687694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4687694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
A Adalja , J Liaukonyte , E Wang , X Zhu
GMO and Non-GMO Labeling Effects: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment
Marketing Science Posted: 2022
H Allcott , L Braghieri , S Eichmeyer , M Gentzkow
The Welfare Effects of Social Media
American Economic Review , volume 110 , issue 3 , p. 629 - 676 Posted: 2020
M L Anderson
Multiple Inference and Gender Differences in the Effects of Early Intervention: A Reevaluation of the Abecedarian, Perry Preschool, and Early Training Projects
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 103 , issue 484 , p. 1481 - 1495 Posted: 2008
S Antill , M Hunter , P Antonetti , S Maklan
Feelings that Make a Difference: How Guilt and Pride Convince Consumers of the Effectiveness of Sustainable Consumption Choices
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 117 - 134 Posted: 2014
Load more
7 Citations
Stacie F. Waites
Decoding ESG: Consumer Perceptions, Ethical Signals and Financial Outcomes
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 18 , issue 7 , p. 361 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Suzie Noh , Eric C. So , Christina Zhu
Financial Reporting and Consumer Behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 407 Posted: 2025
Crossref
HENRY L. FRIEDMAN , GAIZKA ORMAZABAL
The Role of Information in Building a More Sustainable Economy: A Supply and Demand Perspective
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1575 Posted: 2024
Crossref
JOACHIM GASSEN , MAXIMILIAN MUHN
Financial Transparency of Private Firms: Evidence from a Randomized Field Experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 413 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,613
RANK
36,918
7 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies