Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting Long-Run Causal Effects

63 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2024

David Rhys Bernard

Paris School of Economics (PSE)

Philipp Schoenegger

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: January 18, 2024

Abstract

Randomized controlled trials (RCT) are the gold standard in causal inference and are often used by decision-makers in public and private sectors. However, RCTs are often expensive and take a long time to complete, making predicting its effects prior to completion practically important. In this paper, we test the forecasting accuracy of groups of experienced forecasters, academic experts, and lay people in predicting such long-run causal effects. To do this, we recruit 511 unique participants and collect 25,980 individual forecasts. Participants predict the short-run as well as long-run effects of seven RCTs that collected data on a treatment effect with a duration of at least 5 years. We find that experienced forecasters and academics outperform lay people. We also find evidence that experienced forecasters perform better than academics on our primary accuracy measure, and that this is, at least in part, due to their superior calibration. While we do find aggregation effects suggesting a wisdom of the crowds effect, we also show that neither experienced forecasters nor academics consistently outperform a set of simple benchmarks. Additionally, we also fail to find evidence that randomly assigned information about good forecasting practices, details about the RCT intervention, or the local study context improves forecasting accuracy. Overall, our finding that experienced forecasters can outperform academic experts is a novel addition to an otherwise mixed literature. However, the general pattern of results is largely in line with other work, showing that forecasting long-run events is extremely difficult and that improving forecasting performance remains somewhat intractable.

Keywords: Randomized Controlled Trials, Long-Run Forecasting, Expert Judgment, Wisdom of Crowds

Suggested Citation:

Bernard, David and Schoenegger, Philipp, Forecasting Long-Run Causal Effects (January 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4702393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4702393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,354
RANK
306,185
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Randomized Social Experiments eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies