Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fintech Governance and Performance: Implications for Banking and Financial Stability

37 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2024

Greta Benedetta Ferilli

University of Salento

Yener Altunbas

University of Wales, Bangor

Valeria Stefanelli

University of Salento - Department of Economic Science

Egidio Palmieri

Università degli Studi di Udine - Department of Economics

Vittorio Boscia

University of Salento

Abstract

This paper explores the relationship between governance and the performance of Fintech firms recalling Resource-Based View and Upper Echelons Theory. Using a pooling model, it identifies key characteristics of Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) and Boards of Directors (BoDs) that can improve profitability and lower risk in Fintech firms. The findings highlight that an older BoD increased risk and profitability, while a larger BoD reduced returns and risk. Furthermore, having a female CEO impacts the likelihood of default, while CEOs with expertise in management or law are associated with lower profitability. The study provides empirical evidence that governance structures can decrease Fintech risk and increase financial stability, addressing a previously overlooked research area. Informed decisions by banks about Fintech partnerships, based on enhanced governance, can mitigate risks, and improve the overall stability of the financial system.

Keywords: Banking Industry, Fintech, Governance, performance, financial stability

Suggested Citation:

Ferilli, Greta Benedetta and Altunbas, Yener and Stefanelli, Valeria and Palmieri, Egidio and Boscia, Vittorio, Fintech Governance and Performance: Implications for Banking and Financial Stability. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4706657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4706657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
H Abou-El-Sood
Board gender diversity, power, and bank risk-taking
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 75 Posted: 2021
R B Adams , A C Akyol , P Verwijmeren
Director skill sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , issue 3 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the Glass Ceiling: Does Gender Matter?
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,142
RANK
472,791
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Financial Crises eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies