Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Investors' Opinion Divergence

Journal of Accounting Research, 2009

47 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2003 Last revised: 26 Jun 2009

Jon A. Garfinkel

University of Iowa - Tippie College of Business

Date Written: June 26, 2009

Abstract

Numerous proxies for divergence of investors’ opinions have been suggested in the empirical accounting and finance literatures. I offer a new proxy constructed from proprietary limit order and market order data. This allows me to capture additional information on investors’ private valuations. Proxies from the extant literature, based on publicly available data, do not contain such information. Given my new measure, I ask which of the extant proxies correlates best with it. In my regression analysis, unexplained volume is the best proxy for opinion divergence. Conditioning on various firm-specific and order-specific characteristics generally does not change this conclusion. The main exception is the sample of firms without IBES forecast dispersion data, for which bid-ask spread is the best proxy for opinion divergence. Factor analysis also suggests that unexplained volume is the preferred proxy for opinion divergence.

Keywords: opinion divergence, volume, analyst forecasts, bid-ask spread, return volatility

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Garfinkel, Jon A., Measuring Investors' Opinion Divergence (June 26, 2009). Journal of Accounting Research, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=471301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.471301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
J Abarbanell , W Lanen , R Verrecchia
Analysts' forecasts as proxies for investor beliefs in empirical research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha , M Chen
Who Is Afraid of Reg FD? The Behavior and Performance of Sell-Side Analysts Following the SEC's Fair Disclosure Rules
Journal of Business , volume 79 , p. 2811 - 2834 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H Ahn , K Bae , K Chan
Limit orders, depth and volatility: Evidence from the stock exchange of Hong Kong
The Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 767 - 788 Posted: 2001
Crossref
B Ajinkya , R Atiase , M Gift
Volume of trading and the dispersion in financial analysts' earnings forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 389 - 401 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
948
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,350
RANK
56,316
71 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Further Evidence on the Relation Between Analysts' Forecast Dispersion and Stock Returns

By Orie E. Barron, Mary Harris Stanford, ...

The Information Content of Mandatory Risk Factor Disclosures in Corporate Filings

By John L. Campbell, Hsinchun Chen, ...

Do Firms’ Nonfinancial Disclosures Enhance the Value of Analyst Services?*

By Craig Nichols and Matthew M. Wieland

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies