Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Generative AI for European Asset Pricing: Alleviating the Momentum Anomaly

50 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2024

Matthias Mattusch

Dresden University of Technology

Date Written: February 3, 2024

Abstract

We challenge the notion of classical factor models that concentrated factors, particularly the anomalous momentum factor, dominate the European stock market. We use a generative AI asset pricing model that incorporates the economic rationale of no-arbitrage and treats the European capital market as a complex system. This model outperforms all European benchmarks over 16 years out-of-sample with an annualized Sharpe ratio of 3.68, a cross-sectional R2 of over 22%, and an explained variation of over 13%. Using interpretable AI techniques, we find that the model sees a zoo of factors in the European market rather than just a concentrated set. Excellent results stem from time-conditional modeling, which requires momentum, especially for the tangency portfolio weights. Conditional betas can substitute momentum more efficiently. Overall, the risk-sharing mechanism for European assets is more complex than previously thought.

Keywords: Momentum Anomaly, Factor Zoo, Sharpe Ratio, Generative AI

JEL Classification: C45, G11, G12, G15

Suggested Citation:

Mattusch, Matthias, Generative AI for European Asset Pricing: Alleviating the Momentum Anomaly (February 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4715376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4715376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A Ang , J Chen , Y Xing
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 1191 - 1239 Posted: 2006
M Arjovsky , S Chintala , L Bottou , D Precup , Y W Teh
Wasserstein generative adversarial networks
Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning , volume 70 , p. 214 - 223 Posted: 2017
R D Arnott , V Kalesnik , J T Linnainmaa
Factor Momentum. The Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2023
P G Artikis , L Diamantopoulou , G A Papanastasopoulos
New insights on the asset growth anomaly: evidence from Europe*
European Journal of Finance Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,170
RANK
294,806
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies