Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employing AI in Academia: the Role of ChatGPT in Generating Research Questions

16 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2024

Michael Chatham

Radford University

Thomas K. Duncan

Radford University - Department of Economics

Wendy Li

Radford University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Business Law

Date Written: February 8, 2024

Abstract

Large language artificial intelligence chatbots such as ChatGPT from OpenAI have been used to complete a variety of tasks within both the business and academic communities. One application within the latter that we find particularly intriguing is the ability of a tool like ChatGPT to provide research questions to academicians operating in disparate fields of study. The capacity for the generative AI models to replace hours of brainstorming about what might be an appropriate question is the classic time-saving scenario for which these tools are best designed. In our situation, we ask ChatGPT to deliver research questions based on the varied interests (using JEL codes) of three academics: an accountant drawn to primarily empirical tax questions, an economist chiefly motivated by the study of political processes related to national security and war economies, and an accountant largely interested in questions about behavior often best answered by employing experimental designs.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Research Questions, Generative AI

JEL Classification: O32, O33, I23

Suggested Citation:

Chatham, Michael and Duncan, Thomas and Li, Wendy, Employing AI in Academia: the Role of ChatGPT in Generating Research Questions (February 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4721270 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4721270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Omar Ali , Peter Murray , Mujtaba Momin , Fawaz S Al-Anzi
The Knowledge and Innovation Challenges of ChatGPT: A Scoping Review
Technology in Society , volume 75 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2023
Al-Kurdi , Ramzi Osama , Tillal El-Haddadeh , Eldabi
Knowledge Sharing in Higher Education Institutions: A Systematic Review
Journal of Enterprise Information Management , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 226 - 246 Posted: 2018
Saeed Bin-Nashwan , Mouad Awadh , Mohamed Sadallah , Bouteraa
Use of ChatGPT in Academia: Academic Integrity Hangs in the Balance
Technology in Society , volume 75 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2023
James Brand , Ayelet Israeli , Donald Ngwe
Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,684
RANK
151,074
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies