Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To replicate or not to replicate? That is the question

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 42, No. 6, 2023

Posted: 20 Feb 2024

Divesh Sharma

Kennesaw State University, School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

The scientific research world was shaken by revelations of a crisis in reproducing well-regarded research in psychology. This crisis reverberated across several academic disciplines including accounting, which led to controversy about the place and status of replications in accounting. The imperative for encouraging replications in our field is not new and has been met largely with opposition. While antagonists and advocates hold their ground, I believe it is critical to address misconceptions of the role and value of replication studies. In this essay, I clarify the role of replications focusing on two general types of replication: close and differentiated replications. I then discuss the status of replication in accounting followed by a brief narrative on a well-known replication in the auditor independence literature. My concluding comments weave through suggested pathways for a better understanding of replication studies.

Keywords: Credible, Method, Publication bias, Reliable, Replicate, Replication crisis

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Divesh Shankar, To replicate or not to replicate? That is the question (December 1, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 42, No. 6, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4723717
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
433
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies