Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The agency costs of investment opportunities and debt contracting: Evidence from exogenous shocks to government spending

Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting, forthcoming

Posted: 11 Mar 2024

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Mahfuz Chy

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: March 8, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of macroeconomic shocks to firm investment opportunities on firm debt contracting policy. We find that adverse shocks to investment opportunities lead to a significant reduction in the use of debt covenants in syndicated bank loans. Consistent with incomplete contract theory, we show that firms mitigate debt–equity conflicts arising out of investment opportunities by employing accounting-based financial covenants rather than non-accounting-based prepayment covenants. Adverse shocks to investment opportunities also lead to a concomitant decrease in the cost of borrowing. We find consistent evidence for corporate bond covenants and bond market borrowing costs as well. Overall, this study resolves prior mixed evidence concerning the impact of investment opportunities on debt contracting and connects macroeconomic theory with the accounting literature on debt contracting.

Keywords: covenants, debt contracting, investment opportunities, macroeconomic shocks

JEL Classification: M41, G32, E13

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Chy, Mahfuz, The agency costs of investment opportunities and debt contracting: Evidence from exogenous shocks to government spending (March 8, 2024). Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4752653
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies