Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging Theory and Empirical Research in Accounting

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 24-06

Fama-Miller Working Paper

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper 2024-38

27 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2024 Last revised: 28 May 2024

Matthias Breuer

Goethe University Frankfurt

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Haresh Sapra

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Anastasia A. Zakolyukina

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: April 2, 2024

Abstract

Formal theory and empirical research are complementary in building and advancing the body of knowledge in accounting in order to understand real-world phenomena. We offer thoughts on opportunities for empiricists and theorists to collaborate, build on each other’s work, and iterate over models and data to make progress. For empiricists, we see room for more descriptive work, more experimental work on testing formal theories, and more work on quantifying theoretical parameters. For theorists, we see room for theories explicitly tied to descriptive evidence, new theories on individuals’ decision-making in a data-rich world, theories focused on accounting institutions and measurement issues, and richer theories for guiding empirical work and providing practical insights. We also encourage explicitly combining formal theory and empirical models by having both in one paper and by structural estimation.

Keywords: Accounting, Empirics, Theory, Model-Based Research, Structural Estimation

JEL Classification: C40, C50, C60, D60, M40

Suggested Citation:

Breuer, Matthias and Labro, Eva and Sapra, Haresh and Zakolyukina, Anastasia A., Bridging Theory and Empirical Research in Accounting (April 2, 2024). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 24-06, Fama-Miller Working Paper , University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper 2024-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4781878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4781878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
Simona Abis , Laura Veldkamp
The changing economics of knowledge production
Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , p. 89 - 118 Posted: 2024
Isaiah Andrews , Matthew Gentzkow , Jesse M Shapiro
On the informativeness of descriptive statistics for structural estimates
Econometrica , volume 88 , p. 2231 - 2258 Posted: 2020
Isaiah Andrews , Matthew Gentzkow , Jesse M Shapiro
Transparency in structural research
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , volume 38 , p. 711 - 722 Posted: 2020
Christopher Armstrong , John D Kepler , Delphine Samuels , Daniel Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
228,376
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies