Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Text Analysis for Identifying Risk Trends Among U.S. Financial Institutions

15 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2024

Shumpei Watanabe

Columbia University

Abstract

This paper aims to understand the risk profiles of U.S. financial institutions through text analysis of their Form 10-K disclosures, using methods such as TF-IDF and topic modeling. The research uses data from the SEC’s EDGAR system, focusing on the "Risk Factors" section of 10-K forms to extract qualitative information about risks financial institutions perceive. It explores the variation in risk profiles according to business models and how these risks have evolved in recent years. The study discusses the potential of text analysis in regulatory monitoring of financial institutions, aiming to aid in identifying unique risks of financial institutions.

Keywords: Financial risk management, Risk disclosure, Text Analysis, Topic modeling, Latent Dirichlet Allocation, TF-IDF

Suggested Citation:

Watanabe, Shumpei, Text Analysis for Identifying Risk Trends Among U.S. Financial Institutions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4782228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4782228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
J L Campbell , H Chen , D S Dhaliwal , H Lu , L B Steele
The information content of mandatory risk factor disclosures in corporate filings
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 396 - 455 Posted: 2014-08
M Gaulin
Risk Fact or Fiction: The Information Content of Risk Factor Disclosures Posted: 2017-03
Gerard Salton , Edward A Fox , Harry Wu
Extended Boolean information retrieval
Communications of The ACM , issue 11 , p. 1022 - 1036 Posted: 1983-11
T L Griffiths , M Steyvers
Finding scientific topics
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , volume 101 , issue suppl 1 , p. 5228 - 5235 Posted: 2004-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
336
RANK
677,337
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies