Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personality Research in Accounting: A Framework for Moving Forward

66 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024 Last revised: 25 Feb 2025

Devon Erickson

Utah State University - Huntsman School of Business - School of Accountancy

Kip Holderness

West Virginia University

Kari Olsen

Utah Valley University

Monte R. Swain

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Todd A. Thornock

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 15, 2024

Abstract

This paper provides a framework to motivate and guide ongoing research on the effects of personality characteristics on judgments, decisions, and outcomes in accounting settings. In response to calls for further investigation in this area (Kachelmeier 2010; Hanlon, Yeung, and Zuo 2022), we review the last 35 years of research in order to frame the range of personality-based measurement and design choices available to accounting researchers. Personality research uses multiple methodologies (experimental, archival, or survey) and applies to various types of outcomes (individual judgments, perceptions, decisions, and actions) at both the individual and firm level. Using our framework, we analyze prior research published in top accounting journals, identifying key findings and opportunities for further exploration. We then discuss practical considerations and offer recommendations to improve the validity of research involving personality characteristics. 

Keywords: personality, individual differences, judgments, perceptions

JEL Classification: M40 - General

Suggested Citation:

Erickson, Devon and Holderness, Darin Kip and Olsen, Kari and Swain, Monte R. and Thornock, Todd A.,
Personality Research in Accounting: A Framework for Moving Forward
(April 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4792954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
180 References
A Abdel-Meguid , J N Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The impact of the CEO's personal narcissism on non-GAAP earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
M J Abdolmohammadi , D G Searfoss , J Shanteau
An investigation of the attributes of top industry audit specialists
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2004
M A Abernethy , S W Anderson , S Nair , Y A Jiang
2021. Manager 'growth mindset'and resource management practices
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 91
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,047
RANK
605,279
180 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies