Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimization of the Generalized Covariance Estimator in Noncausal Processes

CEIS Working Paper No. 574

38 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Gianluca Cubadda

University of Rome Tor Vergata - Department of Economics and Finance

Francesco Giancaterini

University of Rome Tor Vergata

Alain Hecq

Maastricht University - Department of Quantitative Economics

Joann Jasiak

York University - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 23, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the performance of routinely used optimization algorithms in application to the Generalized Covariance estimator (GCov) for univariate and multivariate mixed causal and noncausal models. The GCov is a semi-parametric estimator with an objective function based on nonlinear autocovariances to identify causal and noncausal orders. When the number and type of nonlinear autocovariances included in the objective function are insufficient/inadequate, or the error density is too close to the Gaussian, identification issues can arise. These issues result in local minima in the objective function, which correspond to parameter values associated with incorrect causal and noncausal orders. Then, depending on the starting point and the optimization algorithm employed, the algorithm can converge to a local minimum. The paper proposes the Simulated Annealing (SA) optimization algorithm as an alternative to conventional numerical optimization methods. The results demonstrate that SA performs well in its application to mixed causal and noncausal models, successfully eliminating the effects of local minima. The proposed approach is illustrated by an empirical study of a bivariate series of commodity prices.

Keywords: Mixed causal and noncausal models, Generalized covariance estimator, Simulated Annealing, Optimization, Commodity prices

Suggested Citation:

Cubadda, Gianluca and Giancaterini, Francesco and Hecq, Alain and Jasiak, Joann, Optimization of the Generalized Covariance Estimator in Noncausal Processes (April 23, 2024). CEIS Working Paper No. 574, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4804375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4804375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Emile Aarts , Jan Korst , Wil Michiels
Simulated annealing
Search methodologies: introductory tutorials in optimization and decision support techniques , p. 187 - 210 Posted: 2005
Frederique Bec , Heino Bohn Nielsen , Sarra Saidi
Mixed causal-noncausal autoregressions: Bimodality issues in estimation and unit root testing 1
Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics , volume 82 , issue 6 , p. 1413 - 1428 Posted: 2020
F Breidt , Richard A Jay , Keh-Shin Davis , Murray Lh , Rosenblatt
Maximum likelihood estimation for noncausal autoregressive processes
Journal of Multivariate Analysis , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 175 - 198 Posted: 1991
Charles Broyden , George
The convergence of a class of double-rank minimization algorithms 1. general considerations
IMA Journal of Applied Mathematics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 76 - 90 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
RANK
791,696
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEIS: Centre for Economic & International Studies Working Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies