Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the Production and Reviewing of Design Science Research in Accounting

42 Pages Posted: 14 May 2024

Noah Myers

Utah Valley University

Mason C. Snow

Utah Valley University

Nathan Waddoups

University of Denver

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 9, 2024

Abstract

Design Science Research (DSR) is a rigorous research methodology widely used in other fields like computer science and engineering, but its application in accounting is still relatively limited. This paper reviews the implementation of DSR published in accounting journals and provides recommendations to improve the authoring and reviewing processes. We review 51 DSR articles published in accounting journals between 2011 and 2023. The analysis identified areas where papers excelled and fell short, leading to recommendations in the following key aspects: adherence to a research framework, validation of research questions, defining objectives of artifacts, developing a more diverse set of artifacts, evaluation of artifacts, and presenting results effectively. By following these recommendations, authors and reviewers can enhance the quality and impact of DSR research in accounting and increase its publication in prestigious journals.

Keywords: design science, artifacts, recommendations, practice relevance

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Myers, Noah and Snow, Mason C. and Waddoups, Nathan and Wood, David A., Improving the Production and Reviewing of Design Science Research in Accounting (May 9, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4823240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4823240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
S Basu
How Can Accounting Researchers Become More Innovative?
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 851 - 870 Posted: 2012
R Bloomfield , M W Nelson , E Soltes
Gathering Data for Archival, Field, Survey, and Experimental Accounting Research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 341 - 395 Posted: 2016
F G Burton , W G Heninger , S L Summers , D A Wood
Accounting Academics' Perceptions of 12 Research Journals
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2022
F G Burton , S L Summers , T J Wilks , D A Wood
Do We Matter? Attention the General Public, Policymakers, and Academics Give to Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
456
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,999
RANK
144,892
6 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies