Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Preliminary Conceptual Structure for Process Maturity Models, Based on a Cone-Based Conceptual Network and Niam Diagrams

30 Pages Posted: 12 May 2024

Jorge Francisco Ruíz López

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jean-Pierre MICAELLI

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eric Bonjour

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Javier Ortiz-Hernandez

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Process maturity models support audit and assessment missions (AAMs) focusing on organizational routines. Under Traditional Process Maturity Models (TP2Ms), auditors use document-based surveys whereas organizations produce data in their daily engineering activities using Information Technologies (ITs). Therefore, how to bridge the gap between ITs' potentialities and AAMs? One answer could be to design a Trace-Based System (TBS) capturing raw data and transmuting it into transformed traces from which it can be possible to automatically reconstruct processes and evaluate their maturity. But this processing is not so easy. A first phase must then be realized, which consists of modeling the conceptual structure of current TP2Ms and future possible Computer-based Process Maturity Models (CP2Ms) based on TBSs. To achieve this goal, this paper proposes a Cone-Based Conceptual Network (CBCN) to give the big picture of TP2Ms' and CP2Ms' scopes, then it proposes to model this CBCN with the use of Nijssen Information Analysis Method (NIAM) to verify the semantic consistency of this preliminary conceptual structure. The result is a first step to develop computer-based process maturity assessment tools. It allows auditors and IT specialists to have a big picture of their domain.

Keywords: Process Maturity Model, Audit, Conceptual Model, Trace-Based System, NIAM

Suggested Citation:

Ruíz López, Jorge Francisco and MICAELLI, Jean-Pierre and Bonjour, Eric and Ortiz-Hernandez, Javier, A Preliminary Conceptual Structure for Process Maturity Models, Based on a Cone-Based Conceptual Network and Niam Diagrams. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4825436 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4825436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
M C Becker
Organizational routines: a review of the literature
Industrial and Corporate Change , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 643 - 678 Posted: 2004-08
C P Team
CMMI for Development, version 1.3 Posted: 2010
E Hosiaisluoma
Capability-Based Development of an Organization Posted: 2024-08
A Miklosik
Improving Project Management Performance through Capability Maturity Measurement
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 30 , p. 522 - 530 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
275
RANK
896,978
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Computing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies