Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption and Effectiveness of Enterprise Risk Management – A Grounded Theory

40 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024

Adedayo Ogunsanya

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: May 25, 2024

Abstract

This research aimed to develop two conceptual frameworks on the adoption and effectiveness of ERM using the grounded theory approach. The theoretical themes were constructed based on semi-structured interviews of sixteen risk management executives and Independent Board Directors. The informants represented multinational, national and regional financial institutions from emerging and developed countries. The framework on the adoption of ERM suggests internal push and external pull as the factors that trigger ERM adoption. The framework on ERM effectiveness is formed by four interdependent theoretical themes: (1) Shared Norms, (2) Risk Information Capacity, (3) Risk Management Leadership Imperative, and (4) Engagement at the top. Implications of the study for theory and management are also discussed.

Keywords: Enterprise Risk Management, Risk Management, Corporate Governance, Leadership, Grounded Theory, Case Study

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Ogunsanya, Adedayo, The Adoption and Effectiveness of Enterprise Risk Management – A Grounded Theory (May 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4840910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Abusitta , E Aïmeur , O A Wahab
Generative adversarial networks for mitigating biases in machine learning systems Posted: 2019
S G Anton
The impact of enterprise risk management on firm value: Empirical evidence from Romanian non-financial firms
Engineering Economics , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 157 Posted: 2018
M Anwar
Business model innovation and SMEs performance-does competitive advantage mediate?
International Journal of Innovation Management , volume 22 , issue 7 Posted: 2018
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
RANK
521,100
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies