Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Investment Funds Following the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Initiative - Part 2

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 5 ; p. 252-266; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/tvegr5

Posted: 3 Jun 2024

Martine Merten

Independent

Date Written: April 16, 2019

Abstract

Part 1 of this article reviewed the taxation of investment funds in light of the various changes and reforms proposed by the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative. Part 2 examines the topic by way of case study, and considers the relevant EU law issues.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: BEPS Project (OECD), investment fund, domestic tax law, tax treaty, dividend, ATAD

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Merten, Martine, Taxation of Investment Funds Following the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Initiative - Part 2 (April 16, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 5 ; p. 252-266; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/tvegr5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845595
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
110
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies