Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock price synchronicity under fat-tailed stock returns

39 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Henry Lahr

The Open University - Business School; University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research (CBR)

Date Written: August 27, 2024

Abstract

A large body of literature of has studied the effects of various firm, market or country characteristics on stock price synchronicity through their effect on the volatility of firm-specific returns. This approach assumes that the sample volatility of returns equals its population value, which is a reasonable assumption under normally distributed returns. But the non-normality of empirical returns is a well-established fact. This paper investigates the effect of high and possibly infinite kurtosis on measures of stock price synchronicity. A simulation of synchronicity under fat-tailed firm-specific returns shows that fat tails increase stock price synchronicity in small samples. This bias is large if stock returns have infinite kurtosis. This finding implies that the sample volatility of firm-specific returns in a typical small-sample study will be biased downward and synchronicity biased upward. An empirical analysis of firm-specific returns shows a large proportion of stocks with fat-tailed returns in the region where kurtosis is infinite. Fat-tailedness is related to firm size, Tobin’s q and industry sector. These and other variables related to a firm’s growth potential and crash risk may thus confound analyses of stock price synchronicity through high or infinite kurtosis and downward-biased volatility in small samples.

Keywords: price synchronicity, return synchronicity, firm-specific information, price informativeness, Pareto law, power-law distribution, fat tails, crash risk

JEL Classification: G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Lahr, Henry, Stock price synchronicity under fat-tailed stock returns (August 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4850305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4850305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
; Gong , Boubaker , Hong Kong , Shanghai
Firm financials Measures derived from firms' financial reports serve as control variables -and sometimes as variables of interest -in a broad range of studies. A typical finding is that firm size is positively related to synchronicity
However, a substantial number of studies find the same for stock illiquidity Posted: 2007
Hutton
The positive relationship may be a statistical artefact caused by aggregation of many economic units in larger firms and thus thinner tails of stock returns. Synchronicity further increases with firm age
Zhai et al., 2021), while findings of a negative relationship are much less common Posted: 2004
Dasgupta
Ng and Rezaee Posted: 2007
Hu ; Gan , Li
Ullah et al., 2020), book-to-market ratio Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
662
RANK
741,509
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies