Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Management Practices on Business Performance of Small and Medium Enterprises in Northern Province

24 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Dr. Logeswary Sooriyakumaran

Advanced Technological Institute, Jaffna

Date Written: January 12, 2022

Abstract

This study aims to find out the Financial Management Practices (FMP: maintaining accounting records, financial reporting preparation and analysis, accounting information systems, working capital management, investment decisions, and financing) among Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and also investigate the impact of those practices on their business performance in the Northern Province of Sri Lanka, which is registered under divisional secretarial divisions using stratified proportionate random sampling techniques with a structural model. This study adopts the modern financial management theory of equity and pecking order and finds that financial management practices have a significant (positive) impact on the business performance of SMEs, excluding investment decisions at 61 percent. Finally, the research recommends that proper FMP in SMEs, even with the maximum effort, shows success in performance better than others. This means that SMEs should be established with well-organized practices that force related authorities to monitor the financial management system on a regular basis. Donors should provide capacity-building training and transfer funds in accordance with the development of SMEs in the said region.

Keywords: Financial management practices, small and medium enterprises, business performance, modern financial management theory, structure model

Suggested Citation:

Sooriyakumaran, Dr. Logeswary, The Impact of Financial Management Practices on Business Performance of Small and Medium Enterprises in Northern Province (January 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4851493 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4851493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
T Abanis , A Sunday , A Burani , B Eliabu
Financial management practices in Small and Medium enterprises in selected districts in Western Uganda
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 29 - 42 Posted: 2013
A M Adam
A Study on Sample Size Determination in Survey Research
New Ideas Concerning Science and Technology , volume 4 , p. 125 - 134 Posted: 2021
I K Addo
The effect of financial management practices on the financial performance of top 100 small and medium enterprises in Kenya Posted: 2017
A Y S Ali , A O Isak
Financial management practices and financial performance of service companies in Somalia
Financial Management , volume 10 , issue 4 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
478
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,337
RANK
136,892
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies