Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Sampling Methods on Bankruptcy Prediction: Normal vs Abnormal Economic Conditions

31 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2024

Asif Huq

University of Gävle; Dalarna University

Wonder Mahembe

Dalarna University

Date Written: May 31, 2024

Abstract

Studies in the bankruptcy literature that aim to improve prediction accuracy predominantly focuses on optimizing feature and model selection. Another fundamental issue that remains rather unexplored is the impact of class imbalance on prediction accuracy. This paper investigates the impact of class balancing techniques (i.e., sampling methods) on bankruptcy prediction in normal versus abnormal economic conditions. In an experimental setup we evaluate four bankruptcy prediction models across the five sampling methods and the two distinct economic periods. Using a sample of 3,842,901 and 54,305 firm-year observations of healthy and bankrupt firms over the years 2012-2021 we show that the choice of sampling method significantly affects the predictive accuracy of the models and importance of feature(s) in distinct economic periods. We also document that simple model with theoretically motivated features (e.g., those proposed in Altman 1968) performs consistently with high prediction accuracy in both normal-and abnormal economic conditions. Our results thus challenge the need of overly complex multimodal models (e.g., combination of textual and numeric corporate information) without theoretical justifications. We find extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) to be the most robust model in our experimental setting across the five sampling methods and the two distinct economic periods. We also document that the importance of features varies within and across the sampling methods, the predictive models, and the prediction periods.

Keywords: Data Imbalance, Machine Learning, Sampling Methods Conceptualization, Bankruptcy Prediction

Funder Statement

Financial support was provided by Swedish Handelsbanken Research Foundation under under grant P23-0200.

JEL Classification: C53, G33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huq, Asif and Mahembe, Wonder, Influence of Sampling Methods on Bankruptcy Prediction: Normal vs Abnormal Economic Conditions (May 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4855469 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4855469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
References
F Barboza , H Kimura , E Altman
Machine learning models and bankruptcy prediction
Expert Syst Appl , volume 83 , p. 405 - 417 Posted: 2017
J Bauer , V Agarwal
Are hazard models superior to traditional bankruptcy prediction approaches? A comprehensive test
J Bank Finance , volume 40 , p. 432 - 442 Posted: 2014
C Charalambous , S H Martzoukos , Z Taoushianis
Estimating corporate bankruptcy forecasting models by maximizing discriminatory power
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 58 , p. 297 - 328 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
519
RANK
729,952
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies