Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MOMIR: Multi-Objective, Many Independent variable Regression

6 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2024

Ramamohan Rao

Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur

Date Written: June 12, 2024

Abstract

This study considers the context of a number of independent variables that simultaneously explain the variation in several dependent variables. Earlier studies considered the relation between the residuals in the different regressions as the method through which the changes in the independent variables transmit their effects on the dependent variables. By way of contrast, a method of estimating the regressions that explain the simultaneous variation in the dependent variables based on the variation in the independent variables has been proposed. A further suggestion is that identifying several switch points in the dependent and independent variables and taking them into account will improve the regression.

Suggested Citation:

Rao, Ramamohan, MOMIR: Multi-Objective, Many Independent variable Regression (June 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4862810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
F Conova , H Pesaran , P Schmidt
Vector Autoregressive Models: Specification, Estimation, Inference, and Forecasting , volume 1 Posted: 1999
P Dhrymes
Posted: 1970
J Ditzen , Y Karavias , J Westerlund
Testing and Estimating Structural Breaks in Time Series Panel Data Posted: 2021
N Draper , H Smith
Applied Regression Analysis Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
310
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Computer Programs & Software eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies