Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carrying out Experiential Surveys/Questionnaires: Tips and Traps

Libby, T. and L. Thorne, The Routledge Companion to Behavioral Research in Accounting 2nd edition Routledge, Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2024

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: May 22, 2024

Abstract

This chapter focuses on a little used but high impact accounting research method: the experiential survey or questionnaire (ESQ). The goal of the ESQ is to develop theory-based, evidence informed data about a context that a participant has extensive experience. The ESQ is designed to gather large scale evidence about a process that occurs in a specific institutional context beyond what can be obtained readily using qualitative interviews. In this chapter we document the strong impact of this method, with over 25% of all papers published winning notable contributions to the literature awards. In the chapter we explain more fully the underlying theoretical basis for the method. We provide “tips” on implementing it successfully and “traps” to avoid in carrying out the method. Finally, we provide the full text of a prototypical ESQ used in an award winning article as an aid to researchers interested in applying the method.

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E., Carrying out Experiential Surveys/Questionnaires: Tips and Traps (May 22, 2024). Libby, T. and L. Thorne, The Routledge Companion to Behavioral Research in Accounting 2nd edition Routledge, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4886664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4886664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
A Annelin , Che , L
Audit Team Distance and Audit Quality Threatening Behavior Posted: 2024
A Annelin
Audit team quality and audit quality threatening behaviour Posted: 2023
S M Clor-Proell , K Kadous , C A Proell
The Sounds of Silence: A Framework, Theory, and Empirical Evidence of Audit Team Voice Posted: 2022
S M Clor-Proell , K Kadous , C A Proell
Do as I Say: A Look at the Supervisor Behaviors that Encourage Upward Communication on Audit Teams Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
255
RANK
662,776
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies