Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Large Language Models to Explore Contextualization Effects in Economics-Based Accounting Experiments

127 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2024 Last revised: 13 Dec 2024

Fikir W. Edossa

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Joachim Gassen

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Victor S. Maas

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School

Date Written: November 28, 2024

Abstract

Most economics-based experimental accounting research tests hypotheses about the behavior of professionals in business settings. There is an ongoing debate about whether the specific business context should be made explicit in experiments, or whether researchers should instead rely on abstract, stylized settings with neutrally framed instructions. In this paper, we argue that the effects of contextualization are highly idiosyncratic and therefore difficult to anticipate without empirical testing. We then conjecture that large language models (LLMs) can be helpful to researchers designing experiments. We introduce “botex”, a software tool that allows researchers to run pilot tests with simulated participants. We illustrate the use of botex in a series of experiments comparing neutral and contextualized versions of three widely-used experimental games. We find that contextualization has significant, but not always consistent or straightforward effects on participants’ behavior, highlighting the potential value of using LLMs in the experimental design.

Keywords: Framing, Large Language Models, Experiments, Games, Contextualization

JEL Classification: B49, C81, C88, C90, D90, M40, M50

Suggested Citation:

Edossa, Fikir Worku and Gassen, Joachim and Maas, Victor S., Using Large Language Models to Explore Contextualization Effects in Economics-Based Accounting Experiments (November 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4891763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4891763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
A Alekseev , G Charness , U Gneezy
Experimental methods: When and why contextual instructions are important
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 134 , p. 48 - 59 Posted: 2017
S W Anderson , M M Cheng , Y S Phua
Influence of control precision and prior collaboration experience on trust and cooperation in inter-organizational relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2022
R Antle , G D Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
L P Argyle , E C Busby , N Fulda , J R Gubler , C Rytting , D Wingate
Out of one, many: Using language models to simulate human samples
Political Analysis , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,874
RANK
147,101
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies