Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expectancy Theory, Profit Sharing Plans and Accounting Information

14 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2004

Alireza Daneshfar

University of New Haven

Date Written: January 15, 2004

Abstract

Researchers in accounting have mainly focused on the use of financial information by investors, financial markets, creditors, and management. Although employees are classified as a group of users of financial information, it is not clear how and in what extent employees are using accounting information. On the theory base, there is less discussion about the theories which explain why and how accounting information is useful to this group of users. This paper illustrates how the expectancy theory can explain the usefulness of accounting information to employees. According to this theory, employees are rational and information seekers who use relevant information to make proper reaction and they use available information to determine the plausibility of the compensation plans offered by the firm. Accounting information is among the available information to employees which is the official information about the firm's financial performance. Therefore, accounting information could explain employees' behavior only if this information is correlated with their reactions to the compensation plans. If this information could explain the employees behavior, then we should be able to develop a prediction model and to identify informative factors. This paper investigates this issue by analyzing the usefulness of accounting information to explain the behavior of the employees in adoption or rejection of a profit sharing plan.

Keywords: Profit Sharing, Accounting Information, Expectancy Theory

Suggested Citation:

Daneshfar, Alireza, Expectancy Theory, Profit Sharing Plans and Accounting Information (January 15, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=489243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.489243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
L Bell , D Neumark
Lump sum payments and profit-sharing plans in the union sector of the United States economy
Economic Journal , volume 103 , p. 602 - 621 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Bhargava
Profit sharing and the financial performance of companies: evidence from U.K
The Economic Journal , volume 104 , p. 1044 - 1056 Posted: 1994
Crossref
P Booth
Strategic Rewards Management Posted: 1990
M Biagioli
An econometric investigation of employee financial participation in enterprise results in a sample of large Italian firms Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
509
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,905
RANK
126,881
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies