Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capturing the wisdom of the field: trends, opportunities and threats in positivist field study research

Research Handbook on Performance Measurement for Management Control. (2024).  Lillis, A.M. & Grafton, J. (eds). Edward Elgar. ISBN: 978 1 80392 066 5.

30 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2024

Jennifer Grafton

University of Melbourne

Anne M. Lillis

University of Melbourne

Date Written: December 08, 2023

Abstract

In this chapter, we consider the implications of big data and technology for positivist field research in performance measurement. These trends are changing the performance measurement questions we can study, as well as how we can study them, as they increase the availability of data sources and advance the capabilities of computer-assisted data analysis. We argue that these trends bias against field research in general and the qualitative analysis of data specifically, in that they make it more costly for researchers. We further argue that qualitative field data and qualitative analysis and interpretation of field data is as truly central as ever to extracting the "wisdom of the field". It remains critical as a way of informing, building, and refining theory, questioning underlying findings based on these new data sources, challenging the interpretation of computer-based, quantified, approaches to the analysis of this data, and identifying questions of importance to practice.

Keywords: Field study methods, qualitative data, qualitative analysis, CAQDA, performance measurement, big data, text analysis, computer assisted qualitative data analysis, positivist field research

Suggested Citation:

Grafton, Jennifer and Lillis, Anne, Capturing the wisdom of the field: trends, opportunities and threats in positivist field study research (December 08, 2023). Research Handbook on Performance Measurement for Management Control. (2024).  Lillis, A.M. & Grafton, J. (eds). Edward Elgar. ISBN: 978 1 80392 066 5., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control system design
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
M A Abernethy , M Horne , A M Lillis , M A Malina , F H Selto
A multi-method approach to building causal performance maps from expert knowledge
Management Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 155 Posted: 2005
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Accounting for fexibility and efficiency: a field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
P Andon , J Baxter , W F Chua
Accounting change as relational drifting: a field study of experiments with performance measurement
Management Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 273 - 308 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
345
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies