Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Clinical Trial Applicability in Cochrane Systematic Reviews: A Protocol for a Systematic Scoping Review

13 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2024

Thomas Downes

University of Dundee

Bruce Guthrie

University of Edinburgh - Advanced Care Research Centre

Michael Holder

University of Edinburgh - Advanced Care Research Centre

Daniel R. Morales

University of Dundee

Date Written: July 29, 2024

Abstract

Background: Applicability relates to the utility of study results for a patient or population who may differ from the study’s sample. The aim of this scoping review is to systematically evaluate the degree to which Cochrane systematic reviews consider the applicability of included evidence from clinical trials.




Methods: A systematic search will be conducted of the Cochrane library to identify Cochrane systematic reviews investigating the effectiveness of pharmacological interventions published between 01/01/23 and 31/12/23. Assessment of clinical trial applicability will be evaluated based on content review for thematic analysis and around pre-specified elements contained in four standard review sections: background description of the condition or problem of interest; characteristics of included studies; GRADE (Grading of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) assessment and subgroup analysis; and discussion and interpretation. Where feasible, subgroup analysis will be used based on review health topic, relevant Cochrane Handbook version, and number of included trials.




Dissemination and Potential Impact: Insights into how Cochrane systematic reviews assess the applicability of included clinical trial evidence will inform recommendations for applicability assessment in future systematic reviews. We plan to present findings from this review at conference(s) and publish in a peer-reviewed journal. 

Keywords: Applicability, Cochrane reviews, Systematic reviews, Clinical trials

Declaration of Interest

The authors of this study have no conflicts of interest to declare.

Funder Statement

Thomas Downes and Michael Holder were funded by an NHS Education for Scotland, Academic Fellowship in General Practice.

Suggested Citation:

Downes, Thomas and Guthrie, Bruce and Holder, Michael and Morales, Daniel R., Assessment of Clinical Trial Applicability in Cochrane Systematic Reviews: A Protocol for a Systematic Scoping Review (July 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4908946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M H Murad , A Katabi , R Benkhadra
External validity, generalisability, applicability and directness: a brief primer
BMJ Evid Based Med , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 19 Posted: 2018
M S Usman , Hgc Van Spall , S J Greene
The need for increased pragmatism in cardiovascular clinical trials
Nat Rev Cardiol , volume 19 , issue 11 , p. 737 - 750 Posted: 2022
J D Casey , L M Beskow , J Brown
Use of pragmatic and explanatory trial designs in acute care research: lessons from COVID-19
Lancet Respir Med , volume 10 , issue 7 , p. 700 - 714 Posted: 2022
H G Van Spall , A Toren , A Kiss
Eligibility criteria of randomized controlled trials published in high-impact general medical journals: a systematic sampling review
JAMA , volume 297 , issue 11 , p. 1233 - 1240 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
432
RANK
888,754
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Human Health & Disease eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies