Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advancing Instrument Validation in Social Sciences: An AI-Powered Chatbot and Interactive Website based on Research Instrument Validation Framework (RIVF)

26 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2024

Resti Tito Villarino

Cebu Technological University

Maureen Lorence Villarino

WEST VISAYAS STATE UNIVERSITY

Date Written: July 28, 2024

Abstract

Background: In social sciences, an appreciable degree of instrument validation is intended to preserve research quality.Objectives: To develop and evaluate an AI chatbot and website for instrument validation, assess their impact on instrument validity improvement, and analyze user perceptions.Methods: Adopting a quantitative design, the study was anchored on the developed RIVF of Villarino (2024). Moreover, it was evaluated through users' perceptions (n=100) by administering surveys, whereby the employment of pairing t-tests used contrasting instrument validity-pre-vs post-RIVF scores, and one-way ANOVA was used to determine if a relationship existed between users' perceptions and total improvement in validity. A G*Power analysis showed that there was enough statistical power for the analyses: for paired t-tests, it was 99.73% (n = 100, dz = 0.5, α = 0.05), and for one-way ANOVA, 80.95% (n = 100, f = 0.25, α=0.05, four groups).Results: Post-RIVF use, all the validity domains showed significant improvements (p<0.001), but the maximum significant gain was seen in construct validity [Mean difference=1.20±0.60, t(49)=14.14]. Subjects perceived the AI chatbot as more useful [4.30±0.70 vs. 3.80±0.80, p<0.001.Conclusion: This AI-powered ecosystem has shown significant potential for incrementing the validity of research instruments in RIVF, while an AI chatbot is very efficient in incrementing the construct validity. These results would infer that the use of AI technologies along with traditional validation methods will improve the quality of research instruments in the social sciences.

Keywords: instrument validation, artificial intelligence, research methodology, social sciences

Declaration of Interest

None declared.

Funder Statement

The authors did not receive any funding for this research project.

Suggested Citation:

Villarino, Resti Tito and Villarino, Maureen Lorence, Advancing Instrument Validation in Social Sciences: An AI-Powered Chatbot and Interactive Website based on Research Instrument Validation Framework (RIVF) (July 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4910804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
T Abate , K Michael , C Angell
Assessment of Scientific Reasoning: Development and Validation of Scientific Reasoning Assessment Tool , volume 16 Posted: 1927
P Aera) ; Balachandran , V Karuveettil , C Janakiram
Development and validation of cultural competence assessment tool for healthcare professionals
& National Council on Measurement in Education (NCMEs) , volume 10 Posted: 2014
P Bernard , G Chevance , C Kingsbury , T Gadais , K Dancause , R Villarino , A J Romain
Climate change: The next game changer for sport and exercise psychology
German Journal of Exercise and Sport Research Posted: 2022
A A Bichi , R Talib , R Embong , H S M Supie , M Khairuddin , Nor'aida , Diah
Development and Validation of Behavioural and Health Sciences Research Instrument
Indian Journal of Public Health Research & Development , volume 10 , issue 6 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
RANK
400,890
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Health Sciences Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies