Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Corporate Risk: An Empirical Inquiry into Listed Entities in the Saudi Capital Market

38 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2024

Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem

King Saud University

Samihah Alsahaly

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 02, 2024

Abstract

A capital market with greater transparency provides more accurate metrics for measuring corporate performance, which can be utilized to inform market participants' decisions. Informed risk is crucial to corporate reporting transparency. This empirical study explores the extent to which firms in the Saudi capital market disclose risk information, whether financial or non-financial. A risk disclosure index (RDI) is constructed based on a rigorous literature review of previous studies, considering suggested items related to corporate risk that must be disclosed. The sample comprises 50 corporations, with five companies representing the energy sector, three representing the utility sector, and forty-two representing the materials sector. The findings reveal moderate financial risk disclosure (sample mean 56%) and low non-financial risk disclosure (sample mean 33%) in the Saudi capital market. In the energy sector, the disclosed financial and non-financial risks comprise 57% and 37%, respectively; in the utility sector, these proportions are 56% and 31%, while in the materials sector, they are 54% and 33%, respectively. Regulators should prioritize high-quality, transparent, and comparable risk information disclosure to attract direct foreign investment. To improve their risk disclosure, managers of firms can also employ the RDI to examine the extent of risk their companies face. This study is limited to the annual and board reports of companies in the three sectors.

Keywords: risk, disclosure, Saudi capital market

Suggested Citation:

Al-Adeem, Khalid Rasheed and Alsahaly, Samihah, Reporting Corporate Risk: An Empirical Inquiry into Listed Entities in the Saudi Capital Market (August 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4913785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
Ntim
Customer satisfaction Jamil et al. [87] Linsley and Shrives , volume 104
; Miihkinen , Ntim
, volume 104
Ibrahim , Handley-Schachler Rajab
Product and service failure Jamil et al. [87] Linsley and Shrives
, volume 100
Ntim , Habtoor
Unsuccessful project deliveries Jamil et al. [87] Rajab and Handley-Schachler
OP , volume 104
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
417
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies