Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Innovation: Paths Forward for Research

25 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2024

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Kurt H. Gee

The Ohio State University

Date Written: July 12, 2024

Abstract

Glaeser and Lang (2024; GL) reviews the accounting literature on innovation, which has increased substantially in recent years.  GL makes an important contribution to accounting research by bringing into the literature the implications of Romer’s Nobel Prize winning endogenous growth theory and by explaining how accounting research addresses questions related to innovation.  We contribute to accounting research by building on GL’s foundation to suggest three main paths forward for future innovation research.  First, focus on innovation’s three defining attributes: novelty, nonrivalry, and partial excludability.  Second, determine the needs of various users of information about a firm’s innovation activities and how to meet those needs; we focus on the needs of investors.  Third, address questions our discussion highlights as potentially important for future research on financial reporting and innovation, including the crucial question of an innovation’s identifiability. 

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E. and Gee, Kurt H., Accounting and Innovation: Paths Forward for Research (July 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4914224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4914224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,454
RANK
251,747
2 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies