Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Suggestions for Incorporating Artificial Intelligence in Ph.D. Student Training in the Field of Accounting

57 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2024

Alisa Brink

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Benjamin Chapin

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Bernhard Reichert

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Mi Zhou

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 30, 2024

Abstract

Artificial intelligence (AI) is transforming academia by providing accessible and user-friendly generative models that can revolutionize Ph.D. student training. Increasing resource constraints may negatively impact the number and availability of Ph.D. faculty mentors, providing impetus to utilize AI tools to increase the efficiency of Ph.D. student training. This paper introduces a curated set of AI tools that Ph.D. students can use to enhance their learning process and research productivity. The primary goals of this paper are to promote a discussion about the responsible use of AI in accounting Ph.D. curricula and to increase the level of fairness between Ph.D. students at well-funded and economically less well-off programs. By offering practical guidance on using AI, we aim to empower all researchers to work more efficiently and have a greater impact regardless of the resources available in their Ph.D. program.

Keywords: Accounting Education, Artificial Intelligence, AI Tools, Ethics, Ph.D. Training, Research Productivity

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that there are no personal or financial relationships with any individuals or organizations that could have influenced or be perceived to have influenced the research and findings presented in this study.

Ethics Approval

This study did not involve any patients or human participants; therefore, ethics approval was not required.

Funder Statement

This research did not receive any specific funding from public, commercial, or non-profit organizations.

Suggested Citation:

Brink, Alisa and Chapin, Benjamin and Reichert, Bernhard and Zhou, Mi, Suggestions for Incorporating Artificial Intelligence in Ph.D. Student Training in the Field of Accounting (April 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4935131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4935131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
296,056
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies