Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the High Manufacturing Cost Incurred to Change the Manufacturing Process to Overcome Climate Change Issues Worth it?

18 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2024

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: August 25, 2024

Abstract

I present in this paper my view regarding the firms' expected reaction to the manufacturing costs incurred to change the manufacturing process as an attempt to overcome climate change issues. I use regression analysis to present the expected cause-and-effect relation between most of the expected financial and nonfinancial variables that are likely to affect firms' decision to incur manufacturing cost for changing the manufacturing process, which would lead to reducing or eliminating greenhouse gas emissions and other sources of energies that generate high carbon emissions, and subsequently, may overcome the climate change issues. I statistically present hypothesis H1 of this paper, whereas I managed to predict the data required for running a regression model that predicts the worthless of incurring manufacturing costs to change the manufacturing process to overcome the climate change issues. The results show that the variables of: the expected financial benefit for firms, the future growth of the international gross domestic product, and the future firms' sustainability reporting are positively associated with the cost of changing manufacturing process, but the variable of climate change issues is not associated with such cost, where the regression model with R 2 = 0.98 removes the variable of climate change issues from the model because of its statistical insignificance. Therefore, I present for future research how to test hypothesis H1 to investigate how likely manufacturing costs incurred by firms attempting to overcome climate change issues aren't worth it. Thus, firms might prefer to have future financial and economic benefits rather than incur the cost of changing the manufacturing process to overcome climate change issues. In addition, future research needs to follow up the current studies of value relevance and stock prices movement as a result of firms' actions to overcome climate change issues.

Keywords: climate change, manufacturing costs, changing manufacturing process, future financial benefits, social value, E-liability accounting systems

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Is the High Manufacturing Cost Incurred to Change the Manufacturing Process to Overcome Climate Change Issues Worth it? (August 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4936176 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4936176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
204
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies