Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Prevalence of Earnings Manipulations: A Novel Approach

68 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024

Nicole L. Cade

University of Pittsburgh - Accounting Group

Joshua L. Gunn

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Alex J. Vandenberg

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 27, 2024

Abstract

We provide prevalence estimates for five forms of earnings manipulation based on executives' reports about their firms' actual reporting practices. After pre-registering our methods and analyses via the Journal of Accounting Research’s registration-based editorial process, we recruit nearly a thousand executives from firms listed in the Russell 3000 Index to participate in either a survey or a list experiment; the hallmark of the latter being additional privacy protections designed to promote honest disclosure about self-incriminating information. In our survey, 26.8% of executives disclose at least one form of earnings manipulation at their firm in the 2018-2023 period: 18.0% report changing an operational activity to meet a near-term earnings target at the expense of long-term value (i.e., real earnings management), 8.8% report intentionally obfuscating unfavorable information, 6.6% report manipulating accruals, 3.9% report withholding material information, and 0.0% report accounting fraud. Our list experiment produces an economically higher result in two cases, estimating that 29.9% of firms engaged in real earnings management and 12.4% committed accounting fraud over the same time period. We conclude that while a traditional survey can provide credible lower-bound estimates for the prevalence of many forms of earnings manipulation, list experiments encourage more honest disclosure in some cases.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Earnings Manipulations, List Experiment, Registered Report

JEL Classification: G10, M40, M41, N22

Suggested Citation:

Cade, Nicole L. and Gunn, Joshua L. and Vandenberg, Alex J., Measuring the Prevalence of Earnings Manipulations: A Novel Approach (August 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937909 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,189
RANK
297,230
3 Citations
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies