Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing the Adoption of IFRS in the MENA Region: A Neo-Institutional Approach

Subject to final copyediting, the paper has been accepted by the Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation (JIAAT); It's forthcoming in JIAAT June 2025 issue.

57 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2024

Abdul Ab. Klish

Leeds Beckett University

Moade Shubita

Leeds Beckett University

Kamil Omoteso

University of Derby

Junjie Wu

Leeds Beckett University

Date Written: July 02, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the factors shaping the choices of countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region in adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), using a neo-institutional isomorphism framework. Analysing data from 19 countries spanning two decades (1996–2015) and comprising 380 country-year observations, this research reveals that internal coercive and mimetic institutional pressures are key influencers behind IFRS adoption in the region. Specifically, governance quality improvement and openness to international trade emerge as crucial determinants. This highlights the predominant role of social and political contexts over economic motivations in driving IFRS adoption in the MENA region. Furthermore, the findings indicate that foreign aid and internal accounting have minimal impact on IFRS adoption in the region.

Suggested Citation:

Klish, Abdul Ab. and Shubita, Moade and Omoteso, Kamil and Wu, Junjie, Factors Influencing the Adoption of IFRS in the MENA Region: A Neo-Institutional Approach (July 02, 2024). Subject to final copyediting, the paper has been accepted by the Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation (JIAAT); It's forthcoming in JIAAT June 2025 issue., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
547
RANK
567,870
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies