Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reporting Practices in FTSE100 Companies

32 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2024

Nuha Cessay

Leeds Beckett University

Moade Shubita

Leeds Beckett University

Fiona Robertson

Leeds University Business School

Date Written: June 29, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this chapter is to establish the sustainability reporting practices of FTSE 100 companies using Integrated reporting (IR), Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Corporate Governance (CG) as proxies. Our study has adopted a holistic approach by combining dimensions of each factor in one variable. Design/ Methodological Approach The study data covers all FTSE 100 companies over five years; thereby generating 505 company-year observations for each variable of the study. Authors have collected the data from Economic, Social and Governance (ESG) reports filed with Thomson Reuters and International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Findings Results indicate the practice of sustainability reporting in FTSE 100 companies both per variables and dimensions levels. It shows, for example, 89% of the companies reported on their charitable donations. The study also found that 79% of the FTSE 100 companies reported on their sustainability committees whilst 86% and 85% reported on their emission reduction and waste reduction policies respectively. Results show that the CSR impact is higher than CG regarding IR adoption. The Logistic Model manages to explain a high percentage of IR adoption while controlling for other misspecification issues such as multicollinearity.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Integrated Reporting Adoption, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance, Applied Accounting, Logistic Modelling, FTSE 100, Book Chapter

Suggested Citation:

Cessay, Nuha and Shubita, Moade and Robertson, Fiona, Sustainability Reporting Practices in FTSE100 Companies (June 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4937538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,013
RANK
429,542
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies