Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and Corporate Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria

13 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2024

Kingsley Ezenwa Onyeadurunu

University of Calabar (UNICAL)

Date Written: August 27, 2024

Abstract

Dividend policy is considered one of the most important financial decisions managers encounter. Despite the growing literature and empirical findings, a consensus on the extent to which dividend policy may influence corporate performance is yet to be reached. Thus, this study was carried out to examine the effect of dividend policy on the corporate performance of listed consumer goods firms in Nigeria. The data for the study was collected from the annual reports of 7 consumer goods firms listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group, covering a period of 10 years; 2014-2023. The data used for the study was secondary, and EViews software version 12 was employed for the analysis. All study objectives were tested using multiple regression and the Hausman test was conducted to choose between fixed and random effects. The result of the study showed that earnings per share, dividend per share, and firm size significantly impact the performance of consumer goods firms in Nigeria. Therefore, the study recommends that consumer goods firms prioritize strategies that enhance earnings per share, as it positively influences return on assets. The study suggests that further research should be undertaken using other proxies of dividend policy to validate the outcome of the research work.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Dividend Payout Ratio, Dividend Per Share, Earnings Per Share, Firm Size

JEL Classification: G35, M21

Suggested Citation:

Onyeadurunu, Kingsley Ezenwa, Dividend Policy and Corporate Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria (August 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4938774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4938774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
877
RANK
424,835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies