Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Generational Accounting as a Tool to Assess Fiscal Sustainability: An Overview of the Methodology

IZA Discussion Paper No. 990

45 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2004 Last revised: 10 May 2025

Holger Bonin

IZA Institute of Labor Economics; ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Concepcio Patxot

University of Barcelona - Department of Economic Theory

Abstract

The paper surveys the methodology of generational accounting, a tool for gaugingintertemporal imbalance in government finances facing demographic transition. Starting fromthe fiscal balance rule providing the theoretical background, we review the methods ofgenerational accountants for generating empirical projections of the items building up to theintertemporal government budget. We debate indication of generational redistribution bylifetime expected net tax payments and several indicators for fiscal sustainability found in theliterature. Finally, the performance of generational accounts, which ignore behavioral andpolicy dynamics, is compared with that of generational welfare indicators based onoverlapping generations general equilibrium models.

Keywords: fiscal sustainability, generational accounting, methodology, survey

JEL Classification: H61, E62, B41

Suggested Citation:

Bonin, Holger and Patxot Cardoner, Concepcio, Generational Accounting as a Tool to Assess Fiscal Sustainability: An Overview of the Methodology. IZA Discussion Paper No. 990, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=494223
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,856
RANK
131,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Generational Policy

By Laurence J. Kotlikoff

From Deficit Delusion to the Fiscal Balance Rule: Looking for an Economically Meaningful Way to Assess Fiscal Policy

By Laurence J. Kotlikoff

From Deficit Delusion to the Fiscal Balance Rule: Looking for an Economically Meaningful Way to Assess Fiscal Policy

By Laurence J. Kotlikoff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies