Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accruals and Long-Term Non-financial Assets and Liabilities

European Accounting Review, forthcoming.

45 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2024

Carl Brousseau

Université Laval - School of Accounting

Cédric Poretti

EHL Lausanne, HES-SO, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland

Date Written: July 23, 2024

Abstract

This study proposes improvements to accrual models. Existing models explain how working capital maps cash flows from operations into earnings and how this mapping reflects accounting conservatism. However, except for fixed asset depreciation, accruals associated with long-term nonfinancial balance sheet accounts (e.g., intangible assets, goodwill, deferred revenues) are not modeled. We show that these unmodeled accruals have grown in importance over time and that a significant portion of them can be explained by utilizing a fundamental property of accrual accounting: most nonfinancial assets and liabilities will eventually be transferred to earnings as accruals, especially during bad times. Using a large U.S. sample for the 1988-2019 period, we document that beginning-of-year long-term nonfinancial assets and liabilities are significantly associated with total accruals and that, consistent with conditional conservatism, a greater proportion of long-term nonfinancial assets is expensed as accruals when current performance is poor. In simulations, compared to traditional models, models that include longterm nonfinancial assets and liabilities as regressors are more likely to detect seeded discretionary accruals between 2% and 20% of total assets, suggesting that these expanded models should be used to decrease the likelihood of making erroneous inferences.

Keywords: Accruals, long-term nonfinancial balance sheet accounts, conservatism

Declaration of Interest

The authors report there are no competing interests to declare.

Funder Statement

Authors were funded by their respective academic institutions.

JEL Classification: M41, D25, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Brousseau, Carl and Poretti, Cédric, Accruals and Long-Term Non-financial Assets and Liabilities (July 23, 2024). European Accounting Review, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4950324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4950324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
597
RANK
524,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies