Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rewarding Certificates or Performance? Navigating Tensions and Divisions in a Dual-Compensation System Through the Eyes of Those at the Frontlines of Public Service Delivery

31 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2024

John Azure

University of Essex

Chandana Alawattage

University of Glasgow

Abstract

For all the scrutiny that the compensation literature has received, one key aspect is often overlooked -how wage dispersion generates tensions and fuels divisions to reinforce an “us” versus “them” dynamic as a discussive construct among those at the frontlines of public service delivery. Integrating social comparisons research with the organisational justice perspective as framing devices, the article explores how a dual-compensation structure originally designed as a pilot to attract qualified accountants into a large public bureaucracy has generated structural ambiguity and riddled the organisation with multiple tensions and divisions among the workforce in a fascinating empirical site. In particular, it highlights tensions between qualified accountants and information technology (IT) personnel as a distinct occupational category, and on the other hand between qualified and non-qualified accountants in same occupational group, and how contestations by aggrieved staff are simultaneously challenged and negotiated by bureaucratic superiors to foster organisational harmony. Among several important contributions to the organisation and accounting literatures, the study brings the discursive struggle and consequences of dual-salary decisions from the laboratory to the real world and from the dividual decision maker to the organisational level. Methodologically, our study is based on a qualitative interpretative research design (Crvelin and Löhlein 2022), with empirical material drawn from a range of primary and secondary data sources, extending over more than 5 years of investigation.Keywords:

Keywords: Compensation, dual-salary, organizational justice, social comparison, tensions.

Suggested Citation:

Azure, John and Alawattage, Chandana, Rewarding Certificates or Performance? Navigating Tensions and Divisions in a Dual-Compensation System Through the Eyes of Those at the Frontlines of Public Service Delivery. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4951943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4951943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies