Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Financial Disasters Inscrutable Spaces: 120 Years Olympic Games Reporting

47 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2024

Kai DeMott

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Darlene Himick

University of Ottawa - Telfer School of Management

Leigh Ellen Walsh

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper investigates how accounting ignorance is sustained through reporting. We do so in the context of megaprojects – extremely large-scale, complex, and costly undertakings that involve multiple public and private stakeholders, and impact millions of people. We adopt a political ecology perspective which views these ventures as inscrutable spaces (Kroepsch & Clifford, 2022), whose unintelligibility poses serious consequences for environmental politics and everyday life. Based on a historical study of 120 years of reports for each Olympic Games since their inception in 1896, complemented by interviews with report authors, we highlight how reporting contributes to making those spaces difficult to know by mobilizing an interplay of biophysical, epistemic, and political economic factors. Overall, our paper contributes to a better understanding of how accounting ignorance is actively produced and sustained through reporting, and how this generates possibilities and outcomes of inscrutability. At the same time, it problematizes the idea that ignorance exists as the binary opposite of knowledge, and instead develops the idea of genuine ignorance (Pianezzi and Ashraf, 2022) by bringing in the notion that features connected to megaprojects make certain spaces unknowable.

Keywords: Olympic Games, Megaprojects, Ignorance, Inscrutable Spaces

Suggested Citation:

DeMott, Kai and Himick, Darlene and Walsh, Leigh Ellen, Making Financial Disasters Inscrutable Spaces: 120 Years Olympic Games Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4951945 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4951945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
236
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies