Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Analytics Data Types and Structures: An Educational Perspective

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

24 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2024

Saeed Askary

Australian Business and Management Consultancy

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Yusuf Ugras

La Salle University

Date Written: September 13, 2024

Abstract

Technological changes have affected the accounting profession significantly, so the next generation of accountants' in the future digital economy must develop strong analytical skills. Despite this need, no research has connected data type and structure to accounting values. This paper discusses data types and structures for big data projects in accounting analytics and what teaching techniques are suitable for accounting students. The paper further demonstrates the relationship between data type in the data lifecycle and warehouse and explains data quality issues. We provide a detailed view of the relationship between data type and structure and suggest that flipped learning can efficiently teach data structure to accounting students. We further discuss how analytical techniques can be applied more effectively by using the flipped learning method. The full paper is available at https://doi.org/10.1504/IJMDM.2024.140724

Keywords: accounting analytics, accounting data type, data lifecycle, data structure, data warehouse, accounting education

Suggested Citation:

Askary, Saeed and Askarany, Davood and Ugras, Yusuf, Accounting Analytics Data Types and Structures: An Educational Perspective (September 13, 2024). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4955137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4955137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
RANK
618,405
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies