Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Communication Through ‘CEO-speak’: A Corpus Analysis of Executives’ Quotations in Earnings Releases

29 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2024 Last revised: 4 May 2025

Milena Nagengast

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: September 24, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the use of evaluation and attribution in earnings announcements through embedded quotations from company executives. Analyzing executive quotations within a corpus of 250 earnings announcements, the research explores how these quotations are used not only to convey information but also to evaluate performance and shape stakeholder perceptions.To the best of my knowledge, this is the first study to qualitatively and quantitatively analyze a corpus of executive quotations from earnings releases issued by European companies over a 10-year period, encompassing significant economic events. By focusing on the dialogic elements of accounting narratives, the study highlights the intertextuality (i.e., inter-connectedness among the genres of financial communication) between earnings releases and earnings calls, contributing to the literature on financial communication.Findings from both qualitative and quantitative linguistic analyses reveal that executive quotations in earnings announcements are strategically used for impression management. In addressing the issue of information asymmetry in capital markets, the study demonstrates that the communicative role of earnings releases extends beyond information dissemination. The analysis underscores the importance of integrating both quantitative and qualitative aspects in accounting education, recommending interdisciplinary approaches that draw on accounting, linguistics, communication science, finance, and psychology.

Keywords: corpus analysis, evaluation, accounting narratives, earnings releases, information asymmetry, impressions management

Suggested Citation:

Nagengast, Milena, Financial Communication Through ‘CEO-speak’: A Corpus Analysis of Executives’ Quotations in Earnings Releases (September 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4967885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4967885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 4-5 , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
W Aerts
Inertia in the attributional content of annual accounting narratives
The European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 32 Posted: 2001
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: Impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
W Aerts , S Zhang
Management's causal reasoning on performance and earnings management
European Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 5 , p. 770 - 783 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
RANK
864,132
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies