Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Big Inequalities in Executive Pay Hurt Firm Performance?

IZA Discussion Paper No. 17346

93 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Richard Yiu-Ming Chung

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jed DeVaro

California State University, East Bay

Scott Fung

California State University

Abstract

Research Question/Issue: Do large, within-firm executive pay differences hurt firm performance? Prior literature shows mixed results concerning the sign of the relationship between executive pay disparity and firm performance. This study evaluates that literature, clarifies what tournament theory predicts about the relationship, identifies methodological pitfalls and how to address them, and guides future scholarship in this area of considerable importance to firms and policy makers. Research Findings/Insights: We estimate the relationship using improved methodology and find evidence of an inverted-U shaped relationship between the executive pay spread and firm performance. However, the peak of this inverted U occurs at such a high level of the executive pay spread that it is practically irrelevant in most firms. The inverted U is found using a market-based measure of firm performance, but not a returns-based measure (i.e., ROA). Theoretical/Academic Implications: This study addresses the theoretical and empirical limitations of the prior literature, thereby providing more credible estimates of the relationship between pay disparity and firm performance. Tournament theory offers a unified framework that can explain an inverted-U-shaped relationship between the executive pay spread and firm performance. Practitioner/Policy Implications: Our results should reduce public concerns that CEOs increase their own compensation to exorbitant levels, to the detriment of firm performance.

Keywords: executive compensation, vertical pay disparity, firm performance, tournament theory, market structure

JEL Classification: G32, G39, J31, M12

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Richard Yiu-Ming and DeVaro, Jed and Fung, Scott, Do Big Inequalities in Executive Pay Hurt Firm Performance?. IZA Discussion Paper No. 17346, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4979604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
558
RANK
785,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies