Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Board Gender Quotas: A Meta-Analysis

IZA Discussion Paper No. 17333

33 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Costanza De Acutis

Central European University

Andrea Weber

Austrian Institute of Economic Research (WIFO); Vienna University of Economics and Business; Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Elisabeth Wurm

Central European University

Abstract

We use a meta-analysis to summarize the recent literature evaluating effects of the introduction of gender quotas on company boards. We collect data from 51 studies on policies implemented in 11 countries from which we extract 496 estimates. The literature considers the effects of quota policies on a wide range of outcome variables which we group in four categories. The findings of the meta-analysis contribute to the discussion of boardroom quota policies by mitigating some concerns of negative impacts and pointing out areas where more policy action is needed.

Keywords: corporate governance, diversity, gender quota, meta-analysis

JEL Classification: C8, G3, J7

Suggested Citation:

De Acutis, Costanza and Weber, Andrea Michaela and Weber, Andrea Michaela and Wurm, Elisabeth, The Effects of Board Gender Quotas: A Meta-Analysis. IZA Discussion Paper No. 17333, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4979570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
Renee B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Kenneth R Ahern , Amy K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Anthony B Atkinson , Alessandra Casarico , Sarah Voitchovsky
Top Incomes and the Gender Divide
The Journal of Economic Inequality , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 256 Posted: 2018-06
Egypt Women on Boards Observatory -Annual Monitoring Report Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,055
RANK
436,691
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies