Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sample heterogeneity in archival accounting research: Implications for coefficient estimation and outlier identification



56 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2024 Last revised: 2 Apr 2025

Patrick Hopkins

Texas Christian University

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Karen K. Nelson

Texas Christian University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 17, 2025

Abstract

We examine the conditions under which pooling heterogeneous observations biases coefficient estimates and targets subsamples of firms as outliers. Simulation results indicate that differences in the distribution of regression variables across subsamples bias coefficients in pooled ordinary least squares regressions towards the higher variance subsample. Using the knowledge and traditional sectors as an example of heterogeneous subsamples, we find that pooled estimations of the relative persistence of profits and losses and the association between accruals and cash flows are not informative for either sector. Compounding these inference issues, we find that common outlier methods applied to the pooled sample disproportionately identify firms in the high-variance knowledge sector. Our analyses suggest that researchers should exercise caution in generalizing findings from pooled samples of heterogeneous observations.

Keywords: influential observations, healthcare, technology, earnings persistence, equity valuation, accrual-cash flow relation, inference

JEL Classification: M21, M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Patrick and Lusch, Stephen J. and Nelson, Karen K.,
Sample heterogeneity in archival accounting research: Implications for coefficient estimation and outlier identification


(March 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4980493 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4980493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M E Barth , K Li , C G Mcclure
Evolution in value relevance of accounting information
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2023
S Bhojraj , C M C Lee , D K Oler
What's my line? A comparison of industry classification schemes for capital market research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 745 - 774 Posted: 2003
E F Blackburne , M F Frank
Estimation of nonstationary heterogeneous panels
The Stata Journal , volume 7 , p. 197 - 208 Posted: 2007
L Booth , L Zhou
Increase in cash holdings: Pervasive or sector-specific?
Frontiers in Finance and Economics , volume 10 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
820
RANK
459,014
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies