Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Tame the Household Debt Without Raising the Interest Rates?

25 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2008

Mohan Nandha

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 2004

Abstract

Consequent to alarming household debt levels and depressed capital market conditions, policy-makers in many countries are facing a dilemma either to raise interest rates to curtail household debt or to do the opposite for boosting their economies and capital markets. The traditional policy offers no solution for achieving these opposing targets. This paper explains that the loan-term (in relation to long-term household loans) has some interesting properties which could be useful for targeting household debt without making any changes to the interest rate. Even it could be possible to relax monetary policy and at the same time tighten household spending by regulating the loan-term. Further, the policy decisions based on combinations of loanterm and interest rate can lead to more desirable outcomes, e.g. tightening aggregate consumption without much adverse impact on the strugglers in the community. Considering that the traditional policy is a global phenomenon, this paper has implications for the policymakers, financial institutions and household borrowers all over the world.

Keywords: loan-term, household debt, rate-based policy, term-based policy, rate and term-based policy

Suggested Citation:

Nandha, Mohan, How to Tame the Household Debt Without Raising the Interest Rates? (January 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=498265 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.498265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
America's Total Debt Report Posted: 2003
Crossref
Grandfather Economic Report series
Crossref
S Bishop , R Faff , B Oliver , G Twite
Corporate Finance Posted: 2003
A Bollard
The New Zealand housing market' Extract from and address to the Property Council of New Zealand Posted: 2003-09-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,391
RANK
772,295
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

How Important is the Stock Market Effect on Consumption?

By Charles Steindel and Sydney C. Ludvigson

Does Stock Market Wealth Matter for Consumption?

By Karen E. Dynan and Dean M. Maki

Disentangling the Wealth Effect: A Cohort Analysis of Household Saving in the 1990s

By Dean M. Maki and Michael Palumbo

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies