Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profiling Article Retractions in Accounting and Finance Research

Posted: 23 Oct 2024 Last revised: 6 Sep 2025

Andreas Charitou

University of Cyprus

Stergios Leventis

International Hellenic University (IHU)

Michail Nerantzidis

University of Thessaly

Date Written: October 15, 2024

Abstract

Purpose – This study aims to profile article retractions in accounting and finance (A&F) research and recommend best practices to mitigate academic misbehavior. To date, there is limited knowledge and understanding of academic misbehavior in A&F. 

Design/methodology/approach – A profiling analysis examines retracted articles published in A&F journals listed in the 2021 Academic Journal Guide. Retracted publications from 2005 to 2023 are identified using both the Retraction Watch database and journal websites. Bibliometric data from Scopus is utilized to analyze features related to these articles, while researchers’ characteristics are gathered from external sources such as university websites, Google Scholar, ResearchGate, and LinkedIn.

Findings – Evidence shows that, during the period under investigation, 95 articles published in 36 peer-reviewed A&F journals, authored by 161 scholars, were retracted. The primary reasons for retraction are data falsification, fake peer review, and plagiarism, leading to a significant decline in research activity post-retraction.  These authors are typically experienced, young males, across all academic ranks, mainly affiliated with US and European universities.  After the retraction, many authors changed academic institutions or left academia. 

Practical implications — The results of this study are expected to assist the A&F academic community in better understanding the nature and impact of article retraction, aiming to establish awareness and stronger mechanisms of monitoring, control, and ethical policies over the publication process. 

Originality/value – To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study in A&F that provides comprehensive analysis and insights on research misbehavior related to retractions. Research integrity in the A&F disciplines is of paramount importance, since the research output disseminated is influential for the business and economic community. 

Keywords: Retracted papers, plagiarism, integrity, misbehavior

Suggested Citation:

Charitou, Andreas and Leventis, Stergios and Nerantzidis, Michail, Profiling Article Retractions in Accounting and Finance Research (October 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4987681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4987681
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies