Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Ai Applications on ESG in the Context of New Quality Productivity
Heliyon

25 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2024 Publication Status: Under Review

Yixuan Zhu

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Bo Xiong

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Abstract

In the context of the development of New Quality Productivity, the promotion of the wide application of AI and the enhancement of ESG are of great significance. However, the relationship between AI applications, ESG, and New Quality Productivity is still unclear. We construct indicators of AI based on data from A-share listed companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen from 2015 to 2022. This data was obtained through web crawling and word frequency statistics. The empirical tests conducted indicate that AI can significantly enhance ESG. The conclusion remains robust even after the tests of replacing the indicator system, lagged regression, and propensity score matching. We integrate the SBM-DEA model and the EWM to develop two primary indicators as mechanism variables, which are proved by the results of the bootstrap test: Enterprise Green Innovation and New Quality Productivity. The results of the heterogeneity analysis indicate that AI has a more pronounced impact on ESG in high-tech industries, heavily polluted industries, and the eastern region relative to the central region. We also provided targeted recommendations.

Keywords: AI applications, ESG, new quality productivity, Enterprise Green Innovation

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Yixuan and Xiong, Bo, The Impact of Ai Applications on ESG in the Context of New Quality Productivity. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4987813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4987813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
820
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10966)
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies