Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Practices on Financial Performance Mediated by Rationalized Managerial Decisions

25 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2024

Fahmida Begum

Comilla University

Musfiqur Rahman

University of Dhaka

Abstract

PurposeThe aim of this study is to analyse how management accounting practices affect the financial performance of manufacturing companies in Bangladesh, taking into account the potential influence of rationalized managerial decision-making.Research design/MethodologyThis study utilizes the stratified random sampling method to determine the appropriate sample size. There are eight different categories of manufacturing companies, including cement, ceramics, engineering, jute, paper and printing, pharmaceuticals and chemicals, tannery industry, and textile. We have collected data from a diverse range of industries in Bangladesh, comprising a total of 78 manufacturing companies. We conducted mediation analysis to measure the direct and indirect effects among the variables, using Rationalized Managerial Decision (RMD) as the mediator variable. We consider the Management Accounting Practices (MAPs) as independent variables and the Financial Performance (FP) of the selective manufacturing industries in Bangladesh as the dependent variable.FindingsThe results indicate a positive relationship between the MAPs and FP, with an increase in MAPs leading to a rise in FP. The relationship between MAPs and RDM is positive; an increase in MAPs leads to a rise in RDM. The overall impact of RMD on FP is positive. When considering the mediating variable RDM, it is evident that MAPs have a positive impact on FP, and this mediation effect is statistically significant.Implications of the studyThis study has contributes valuable insights into the impact of management accounting methods on financial performance. It specifically focuses on the role of rationalized managerial decision-making as a mediator.

Keywords: financial performance, Management Accounting Practices, Manufacturing Companies, Rationalized Managerial Decision

Suggested Citation:

Begum, Fahmida and Rahman, Musfiqur, Management Accounting Practices on Financial Performance Mediated by Rationalized Managerial Decisions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4990429 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4990429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
767
RANK
524,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies