Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attention Is All You Need: An Analysis Of The Valuation Of Artificial Intelligence Tokens

7 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024

Mfon Akpan

Northeastern State University - College of Business & Technology

Date Written: October 20, 2024

Abstract

This study discusses the parameters that define the value of artificial intelligence (AI) tokens based on user interaction, their pricing mechanism, and their correlation with the predicted value thus evaluating AI token valuation based on user engagement, pricing, and website visits. This study tests hypotheses that examine the factors that influence the value of AI tokens. Using data from ten AI tokens, the study employs correlation and regression analyses to examine these relationships. The results show that monthly active users (MAU) and website visits significantly predict valuation, while pricing shows a marginal effect. This research provides insights for stakeholders in understanding economic factors affecting AI token values, emphasizing user engagement and pricing strategies. 

Keywords: AI Tokens, Valuation, Monthly Active Users (MAU), Pricing, User Engagement, Website Visits, Regression Analysis, AI

JEL Classification: M41, O33, C63

Suggested Citation:

Akpan, Mfon, Attention Is All You Need: An Analysis Of The Valuation Of Artificial Intelligence Tokens (October 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4993784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4993784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Agrawal , J S Gans , A Goldfarb
Artificial intelligence: The ambiguous labor market impact of automating prediction
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2019
I Ahmed , M Kajol , U Hasan , P P Datta , A Roy , R Reza
ChatGPT versus bard: A comparative study. Engineering Reports. Advance online publication Posted: 2024
M Akpan
The Elon Musk effect: How community initiative spending impacts earned social media valuation
Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets & Institutions , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 34 - 48 Posted: 2022
R Ali , J Xu , M H Baig , H S U Rehman , M Waqas Aslam , K U Qasim
From data to decisions: Enhancing financial forecasts with LSTM for AI token prices
Journal of Economic Studies. Advance online publication Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
924
RANK
492,803
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies