Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of ESG Rating Divergence On Corporate Audit Fees: Tests Based on the Risk Transmission View and the Information Effects View

39 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2024

Hongtao Chen

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Yun-Lang Wu

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Jun Huang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

We examine the impact of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) rating divergence on corporate audit fees. ESG rating divergence significantly increases audit fees, which is consistent with the risk transmission view. This increase in audit fees is mainly due to disagreements between ESG rating agencies increasing market attention and reducing the quality of disclosure. Adequate sustainability disclosure, greater charitable donations, and better corporate governance weaken the positive effect of ESG rating divergence on audit fees. Our study enriches the literature on ESG rating divergence in China and provides an important reference to help auditors reduce audit risk and ensure audit quality.

Keywords: ESG Rating Divergence, Audit Fees, Market Focus, Disclosure Quality

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hongtao and Wu, Yun-Lang and Huang, Jun, The Effect of ESG Rating Divergence On Corporate Audit Fees: Tests Based on the Risk Transmission View and the Information Effects View. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5002008 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5002008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
932
RANK
514,489
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies