Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How does the Accounting Research Community Think About Open Science?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 163

69 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2024 Last revised: 20 Feb 2025

Joachim Gassen

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Jacqueline Klug

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Victor van Pelt

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: October 30, 2024

Abstract

We explore the attitudes of the accounting research community towards open science practices by surveying a sample of scholars who have published in leading accounting jour-nals. Building on a discussion of the costs and benefits of open accounting research, we find that accounting researchers, compared to peers from other social science disciplines, are more skeptical about the reproducibility of their influential findings. Additionally, they state to be less familiar with publicly sharing research materials and to pre-register their study designs less frequently. Despite believing that both the accounting research community and journal editors support the sharing of research materials, there is skepticism regarding its actual prevalence. To supplement these survey insights, we analyze observational data, revealing that research material sharing is relatively uncommon and predominantly associated with journals enforcing data and code sharing policies. Finally, our data suggests that accounting researchers view research material sharing as yielding low private benefits but high private costs. We interpret our evidence as indicative of an “accounting open science dilemma” and propose strategies for effectively addressing this issue.

Keywords: Accounting Research, Open Science, Reproducibility, Research Material Sharing, Pre-Registration, Survey

Suggested Citation:

Gassen, Joachim and Klug, Jacqueline and van Pelt, Victor, How does the Accounting Research Community Think About Open Science? (October 30, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 163, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5004669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5004669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
990
RANK
340,735
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies