Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Diversification on Industry Effects in Firm Profitability Forecasting

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024

Zongxi Chen

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: October 30, 2024

Abstract

In this paper, we revisit the relative forecasting improvement from the use of an industry-specific model compared to that of an economy-wide model. We extend the results of Schröder and Yim (2018) who demonstrate that the industry-specific model only improves forecasting for single-segment firms due to the complication of different industries confounding the industry benchmark for multiple-segment firms. To explore the issues, we argue that the level of diversification is a more nuanced manner than a simple single-/multiple-segment dichotomy. Our results suggest that industry-specific models can provide more accurate forecasts of future performance and growth, not only for single-segment firms, but also for multiple-segment firms where the level of diversification is relatively low. The results help contribute to the forecasting literature to further explain when the use of different benchmarks is useful in predicting future performance.

Keywords: diversification, forecasting, industry, market, proftability

Funder Statement

Andrew Jackson acknowledges funding from a UNSW Scientia Fellowship. This research was supported under the Australian Research Council’s Discovery Projects funding scheme (project number DP210101354).

JEL Classification: G17, M4

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zongxi and Jackson, Andrew B., The Impact of Diversification on Industry Effects in Firm Profitability Forecasting (October 30, 2024). UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5004044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5004044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
P G Berger , R Hann
The impact of SFAS No. 131 on information and monitoring
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 223 Posted: 2003
P G Berger , E Ofek
Diversification's effect on firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 65 Posted: 1995
S Bhojraj , C M C Lee , D K Oler
What's my line? A comparison of industry classification schemes for capital market research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 745 - 774 Posted: 2003
D W Collins
Predicting earnings with sub-entity data: Some further evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 163 - 177 Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
580
RANK
692,196
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies