Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO Age Matter for Auditor Choice and Audit Pricing? The Role of CEO Dominance 

Journal of Accounting Literature, 2024[10.1108/JAL-09-2023-0169]

51 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 31 Oct 2024

Lutfa Tilat Ferdous

University of Leicester

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Masoud Azizkhani

Tasmanian Audit Office

Date Written: October 31, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-This study examines the impact of the age of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on the demand for audit quality, as reflected in auditor choice and audit fees. Furthermore, the study investigates whether CEO dominance moderates the association between CEO age, auditor choice and audit fees. 



Design/methodology/approach-Using a sample of 14,066 firm-year observations from 2000-2017, the study employs logistic regression and ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions to estimate the research models. The study also employs various techniques to address the endogeneity issue in the findings. Findings-Using industry specialist auditors and brand name (Big 4) auditors as proxies, the study finds that firms with older CEOs are more likely to appoint higher-quality auditors. The study also finds that firms with older CEOs pay higher audit fees than firms with younger CEOs, which is likely to be due to increased demand for higher-quality audits and to risk aversion among older CEOs. In addition, the study finds that CEO dominance attenuates the positive association of CEO age with auditor choice and audit fees. The findings are found to be robust in our analyses which address the endogeneity issue with firm fixed effects, two-stage least squares (2SLS) regression and entropy balancing. In addition, the study provides evidence that the positive association between CEO age and audit pricing persists when firms replace younger CEOs with older CEOs. 


Research limitations/implications-The study's findings suggest that the United States (US) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) may need to be more cautious when monitoring financial statements from firms with younger CEOs. 


Originality/value-This study contributes to a growing stream of research investigating the links between managers' idiosyncratic age differences and the quality of financial reporting and corporate decisions.

Keywords: Auditor choice, Audit pricing, Audit risk, CEO age, CEO dominance

Suggested Citation:

Ferdous, Lutfa Tilat and Bose, Sudipta and Shams, Syed and Azizkhani, Masoud, Does CEO Age Matter for Auditor Choice and Audit Pricing? The Role of CEO Dominance  (October 31, 2024). Journal of Accounting Literature, 2024[10.1108/JAL-09-2023-0169], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5005491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JAL-09-2023-0169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
Tone at the top: How management can prevent fraud in the workplace Posted: 2006-09-30
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialisation and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
689
RANK
826,408
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies