Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does a Breakdown in Engagement Supervision Reveal Office-Level Audit Quality? Evidence from Audit Report Errors

47 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2024

Lawrence Abbott

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

William L. Buslepp

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Blair B. Marquardt

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Stephanie Merrell

Nicholls State University

Abstract

Although practitioner literature and auditing standards assert a link between an auditor’s internal review procedures and audit quality, prior archival researchers have struggled to support this claim. We identify an error in the audit report as an observable failure of the review process since engagement partners are required to read the audit report. We expect audit report errors to signal lower vigilance and poorer audit quality in the affected office. Consistent with an office-level effect, we find that clients of Big Four offices committing audit report errors display greater abnormal accruals than do clients of non-offending offices. Our research is among the first to demonstrate archivally that failures in the review process meaningfully signal outcome-based audit quality at the office-level.

Keywords: audit quality, engagement supervision and controls, audit report

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Lawrence and Buslepp, William L. and Marquardt, Blair and Merrell, Stephanie, Does a Breakdown in Engagement Supervision Reveal Office-Level Audit Quality? Evidence from Audit Report Errors. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5006157 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5006157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
L Abbott , W Buslepp , C Boland , S Mccarthy
U.S. audit partner identification and auditor reporting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2022
S Andousset-Coulier , A Jeny , I Jiang
The validity of auditor industry specialization measures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 161 Posted: 1989
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
D Aobdia
The economic consequences of audit firms' quality control system deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
402
RANK
880,318
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies