Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Nature of Stock Price Crash Risk: Hoarding of Bad News or Non-Agency Uncertainty? 

Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Research Paper

50 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024 Last revised: 31 Mar 2025

Sanjeev Bhojraj

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Manuela Dantas

California State University, Northridge

George Gao

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Jeffery Piao

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Felipe Bastos G. Silva

Cornerstone Research, Inc. - Boston Office

Date Written: March 31, 2025

Abstract

We reassess the longstanding bad news hoarding hypothesis that underlies the vast literature on the effects of financial reporting on firms' stock price crash risk. We propose a series of tests to help distinguish between crash risks due to bad news hoarding visa -vis the underlying risk exposures of firms (non-agency uncertainty hypothesis). The three pillars of these tests are (i) to analyze both tails of the return distribution, (ii) to differentiate between isolated and coincident crashes and booms, and (iii) to account for investors' expectations. Opacity is the only financial reporting quality proxy that survives the additional tests and is consistent with bad news hoarding. Our findings collectively provide a roadmap to better understand the underlying channels connecting financial reporting and crash risks.

Keywords: crash risk, financial reporting, bad news hoarding, uncertainty

Suggested Citation:

Bhojraj, Sanjeev and Dantas, Manuela and Gao, George and Piao, Jeffery and Silva, Felipe Bastos G., The Nature of Stock Price Crash Risk: Hoarding of Bad News or Non-Agency Uncertainty?  (March 31, 2025). Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5011997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5011997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R Albuquerque
Skewness in stock returns: Reconciling the evidence on firm versus aggregate returns
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 5 , p. 1630 - 1673 Posted: 2012
P C Andreou , C Louca , A P Petrou
CEO Age and Stock Price Crash Risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 1287 - 1325 Posted: 2017
A M Bauer , X Fang , J A Pittman
The importance of IRS enforcement to stock price crash risk: The role of CEO power and incentives
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 4 , p. 81 - 109 Posted: 2021
J W Bentley , T E Christensen , K H Gee , B C Whipple
Disentangling managers' and analysts' non-gaap reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Arash Ghorbani
Zombie firms and corporate risk-taking
Managerial Finance , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
660
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,756
RANK
91,313
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies