Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Risk Reporting Practices in Saudi Arabia: An Institutional Perspective

49 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2024

Rawan Alsahlawi

Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University

Suzanne G.M. Fifield

University of Dundee

Theresa Dunne

University of Dundee

Abstract

Combining Oliver’s (1991) framework and the institutional logics concept of Thornton et al. (2012), this paper introduces new theoretical arguments that show the influence of institutional processes on the decision of Saudi-listed companies to report risk information. The extent of risk reporting is determined for 104 Saudi-listed companies by utilising a disclosure index. Guided by new institutional sociology, ten hypotheses are developed and tested using regression analysis to identify significant institutional factors that affect the extent of reporting this information. The disclosure index provided evidence that indicated heterogeneity in the risk reporting practices of Saudi-listed companies. The multivariate regression analysis identified four institutional determinants that influenced the extent of risk reporting practices: legitimacy, consistency, coercion, and diffusion. These findings support the notion that multiple logics shape the risk reporting practices of Saudi-listed companies, such as corporation logics, professional logics, and state logics. Thus, different forms of rationality shape the decision of Saudi-listed companies to report risk information as a response to institutional processes.

Keywords: Risk Reporting, IFRS 7, Institutional Processes, Institutional Logics

Suggested Citation:

Alsahlawi, Rawan and Fifield, Suzanne G.M. and Dunne, Theresa, Determinants of Risk Reporting Practices in Saudi Arabia: An Institutional Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5012426 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5012426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
O H Abd-Elsalam , P Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an emerging capital market: relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
M Abdullah , L Evans , I Fraser , I Tsalavoutas
IFRS Mandatory disclosures in Malaysia: the influence of family control and the value (ir) relevance of compliance levels
Accounting Forum , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 328 - 348 Posted: 2015
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
S Abraham , P J Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
331
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies