Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causal Reasoning in Earnings Releases: Insights from a European Perspective

27 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 30 Jan 2025

Milena Nagengast

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: October 15, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the linguistic features of accounting narratives in earnings releases issued by large European companies, focusing on significantly frequent words (i.e., keywords) and phrases, particularly the adverb mainly and the prepositional connectors due to and attributable to. I identified keywords based on keyness, indicating words that occur with significantly higher frequency in the corpus of earnings releases relative to a reference corpus, specifically, the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA). By conducting a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the key words and phrases in nearly 1,000 earnings releases, the research reveals that the communicative purpose of these financial narratives extends beyond mere information delivery to encompass persuasive strategies aimed at managing perceptions and reinforcing the truth-value of financial statements. The analysis demonstrates that the prepositional connectors serve critical pragmatic functions, facilitating logical reasoning that connects outcomes with their underlying causes. The findings suggest that while addressing information asymmetry, firms also strategically use these narratives to influence investor perceptions. This research not only contributes to the understanding of strategic corporate communication but also highlights the need for further exploration of causal connectives in the context of investor decision-making.

Keywords: information asymmetry, accounting narratives, causal reasoning, persuasion, discourse connectors, financial disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Nagengast, Milena, Causal Reasoning in Earnings Releases: Insights from a European Perspective (October 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5012425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5012425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 4-5 , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
W Aerts
Inertia in the attributional content of annual accounting narratives
The European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 32 Posted: 2001
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: Impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
W Aerts , S Zhang
Management's causal reasoning on performance and earnings management
European Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 5 , p. 770 - 783 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
267
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies