Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leveraging Large Language Models to Democratize Access to Costly Datasets for Academic Research

59 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2024 Last revised: 14 Sep 2025

Julian Wang

University of Oxford

Victor Xiaoqi Wang

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

Unequal access to costly datasets essential for empirical research has long hindered researchers from disadvantaged institutions, limiting their ability to contribute to their fields and advance their careers. Recent breakthroughs in Large Language Models (LLMs) have the potential to democratize data access by automating data collection from unstructured sources. We develop and evaluate a novel methodology using GPT-4o-mini within a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework to collect data from corporate disclosures. Our approach achieves human-level accuracy in collecting CEO pay ratios from approximately 10,000 proxy statements and Critical Audit Matters (CAMs) from more than 12,000 10-K filings, with LLM processing times of 9 and 40 minutes respectively, each at a cost under US $10. This stands in stark contrast to the hundreds of hours needed for manual collection or the thousands of dollars required for commercial database subscriptions. To foster a more inclusive research community by empowering researchers with limited resources to explore new avenues of inquiry, we share our methodology and the resulting datasets.

Keywords: Generative AI (GenAI), Large Language Models (LLMs), ChatGPT, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), Automated Data Collection, CEO Pay Ratio, Critical Audit Matter (CAM)

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Julian and Wang, Victor Xiaoqi, Leveraging Large Language Models to Democratize Access to Costly Datasets for Academic Research (November 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5012660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5012660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Agrawal , A Goldfarb
Restructuring research: Communication costs and the democratization of university innovation
American Economic Review , volume 98 , issue 4 Posted: 2008
N Ahmed , M Wahed
The De-democratization of AI: Deep Learning and the Compute Divide in Artificial Intelligence Research Posted: 2020
C Anderson , P Versbach , F Mueller-Langer
Open access to data: An ideal professed but not practised
Research Policy , volume 43 , issue 9 , p. 1621 - 1633 Posted: 2004
J Angrist , P Azoulay , G Ellison , R Hill , S F Lu
Inside job or deep impact? Extramural citations and the influence of economic scholarship
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 58 , issue 1 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
596
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,045
RANK
104,066
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies