Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Use Higher Moments to Capture Accounting Constructs

Fox School of Business Research Paper

66 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024 Last revised: 10 Oct 2025

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Dmitri Byzalov

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 06, 2025

Abstract

Researchers often use higher moments of accounting variables to capture theoretical accounting constructs, such as accrual skewness for conditional conservatism or ROA variance for performance risk. However, we show that the typical empirical computation of such moments (e.g., skewness in a five-year rolling window) does not align with the theoretical construct. In this primer, we explain how to define higher moments that reflect the logic of the construct and how to implement them empirically. Our approach is transparent, robust, and can be implemented using a few lines of code that we provide. It works for typical low-frequency annual and quarterly accounting data and does not need a long time series to measure higher moments. We also show that standard rolling-window proxies for higher moments do not provide an adequate approximation and can cause major biases. Undoing these biases changes published findings.

Keywords: accounting construct, generalized method of moments (GMM), multi-stage estimation, bootstrapping JEL codes: M41, C20, C25, accounting logic

JEL Classification: M41, C20, C25

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Byzalov, Dmitri, How to Use Higher Moments to Capture Accounting Constructs (October 06, 2025). Fox School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5014922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5014922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson , Y Thaicharoen
Institutional causes, macroeconomic symptoms: Volatility, crises and growth
J. Monet. Econ , volume 50 , p. 49 - 123 Posted: 2003
A Agarwal , S Chen , L Mills
Entity structure and taxes: An analysis of embedded pass-through entities
Account. Rev , volume 96 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2021
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
J. Account. Res , volume 51 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
R Ball
Accounting informs investors and earnings management is rife: Two questionable beliefs
Account. Horiz , volume 27 , p. 847 - 853 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
758
RANK
394,708
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies