Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Financial Reporting Quality in Private Placements

49 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2024

Zhi Li

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Jiajia Fu

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American)

Jing Xie

University of Macau, Faculty of Business Administration, Department of Finance and Business Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We investigate the role of financial reporting quality (FRQ) in private placements by examining whether FRQ affects the outcomes of private investment in public equity (PIPE) offerings. We find that PIPE issuers with higher FRQ enjoy a lower PIPE discount. We also find that firms with higher FRQ have a greater fraction of shares purchased by non-hedge-fund investors and are imposed with fewer investor protection provisions in PIPE contracts. Further analysis shows more positive PIPE announcement returns for issuers with higher FRQ. A robust positive relation between FRQ and the issuing firm’s post-PIPE performance suggests better deal quality for higher FRQ issuers. Collectively, our findings suggest that FRQ reduces information asymmetry and signals lower agency costs in PIPE deals, leading to more favorable financing outcomes for issuers.

Keywords: Private investments in public equity, financial reporting quality, cost of equity capital, financial contracting, agency cost

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhi and Cheng, Agnes and Fu, Jiajia and Xie, Jing, The Role of Financial Reporting Quality in Private Placements. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5015011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5015011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
T J Chemmanur , Y Jiao
Institutional trading, information production, and the SEO discount: A model of seasoned equity offerings
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 20 , p. 299 - 338 Posted: 2011
F Chen , O K Hope , Q Li , X Wang
Flight to quality in international markets: investors' demand for financial reporting quality during political uncertainty events
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 117 - 155 Posted: 2018
H.-C Chen , N Dai , J D Schatzberg
The choice of equity selling mechanisms: PIPEs versus SEOs
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , p. 104 - 119 Posted: 2010
S Chen , B Miao , T Shevlin
A new measure of disclosure quality: The level of disaggregation of accounting data in annual reports
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 1017 - 1054 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
425
RANK
345,646
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies