Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Fallacies in Corporate Finance: A Coaseian Perspective

Forthcoming in the Journal of Law, Finance and Accounting

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 5016107

Posted: 18 Dec 2024 Last revised: 12 Nov 2024

Varouj A. Aivazian

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: December 03, 2023

Abstract

We argue that the Modigliani and Miller (1958, 1961, 1963) Irrelevance Theorems are subsumed by the Coase Theorem (Coase, 1960). We employ the Coase Theorem to critique two fundamental results in the corporate finance literature. Specifically, we reject the claim by DeAngelo and DeAngelo (2006) that dividends are relevant in frictionless markets. Using the logic of the Coase Theorem, we argue that the solution offered by DeAngelo and DeAngelo (2006) is not in equilibrium. In addition, we reject the claim by Myers (1977) that corporate investment is negatively related to leverage in frictionless markets (the so-called underinvestment problem). If the firm plans to underinvest because of debt overhang, shareholders and debt holders will costlessly re-contract around the debt overhang until the firm takes on the optimal investment. However, if we were to interpret Myers (1977) as implicitly assuming transaction costs or other frictions, then an underinvestment equilibrium could emerge since Coaseian efficiency generally fails to emerge in such settings. In the context of Myers (1977), transaction costs of re-contracting limit the full internalization of externalities engendered by the actions of controlling shareholders and yield underinvestment. Other frictions due to asymmetric information, or free rider and empty core problems in the bargaining/recontracting process, can also undermine Coaseian efficiency and generate underinvestment equilibria. 

Keywords: Coase Theorem, Dividend Policy, Underinvestment, Miller-Modigliani, Captal Structure, Transaction Costs

JEL Classification: D2, D23, G3, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Aivazian, Varouj A. and Callen, Jeffrey L., Some Fallacies in Corporate Finance: A Coaseian Perspective (December 03, 2023). Forthcoming in the Journal of Law, Finance and Accounting, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 5016107, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5016107
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
476
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies