Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hoarding Cash to Survive Through Winter --- Chinese Corporate Cash Holdings Over Unexpected Downturn of Business Cycles

45 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2024

Lunan Jiang

Henan University

Yinghui Chen

Beijing Normal University - Zhuhai Campus

lin zhang

Henan University

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of business cycle shocks on corporate cash holdings. Utilizing a continuous measure of business cycle shocks developed through a robust macroeconomic technique, we find that firms increase their cash holdings in response to adverse shocks. This result remains consistent across a range of sensitivity tests. Further analysis reveals that tightened financial conditions stemming from unfavorable macroeconomic circumstances are a key mechanism driving this increase in cash reserves. We also find that the effect of business cycle shocks on cash holdings is asymmetric. Furthermore, the increase in cash holdings among state-owned enterprises (SOEs) is less pronounced under adverse conditions. Additionally, our findings indicate that firms with greater growth opportunities, those in more competitive industries, and firms headquartered in regions with more developed institutions tend to hoard more cash in response to adverse business cycle shocks. Overall, our results support the notion that variations in corporate cash holdings in the face of macroeconomic shocks are primarily driven by precautionary motives.

Keywords: Business cycle shocks, Cash holdings, Financial constraints

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Lunan and Chen, Yinghui and zhang, lin, Hoarding Cash to Survive Through Winter --- Chinese Corporate Cash Holdings Over Unexpected Downturn of Business Cycles. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5018146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5018146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
G Anderson , A Cesa-Bianchi
Crossing the credit channel: credit spreads and firm heterogeneity
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 16 , p. 417 - 446 Posted: 2024
J Ang , A Smedema
Financial flexibility: Do firms prepare for recession?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 17 , p. 774 - 787 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,735
RANK
38,160
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies