Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Appendix to:  The Road to False Positives:  Sample Selection and Specification Choice in Randomized and Natural Experiments

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 25-3

122 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2025 Last revised: 16 Jan 2025

Bernard S. Black

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Hemang Desai

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Kate Litvak

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Woongsun Yoo

Central Michigan University

Jeff Jiewei Yu

University of Arizona

Date Written: November 17, 2024

Abstract

This Appendix contains additional results and discussions to accompany Black, Desai, Litvak, Yoo, and Yu, The Road to False Positives:  Sample Selection and Specification Choice in Randomized and Natural Experiments. It contains sample details; graphs for each of the specifications and regression details for our specification, the best-match specifications for the re-examined papers and results for step-by-step moves from our specification to the best-match specification along with reported results for each of the 10 re-examined papers.


Suggested Citation:

Black, Bernard S. and Desai, Hemang and Litvak, Kate and Yoo, Woongsun and Yu, Jeff Jiewei, Internet Appendix to:  The Road to False Positives:  Sample Selection and Specification Choice in Randomized and Natural Experiments (November 17, 2024). SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 25-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024143 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
769
RANK
718,702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies