Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Newspaper Closures and Trading in Local Stocks

67 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2024 Last revised: 1 Sep 2025

Peter Cziraki

Texas A&M University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

Jasmin Gider

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 31, 2025

Abstract

There is increasing awareness of how local media affects financial markets, but also of the endogeneity of media coverage. We separate the causal impact of local media on financial markets from selection effects using a new, hand-collected database of newspaper closures. We find that at least 29% of local newspaper closures are driven by distress, and thus, likely endogenous to local economic conditions. Return volatility and idiosyncratic risk decrease significantly after non-distress-driven newspaper closures, but increase after distress-driven closures, suggesting the presence of substantial selection effects. We find similar patterns for liquidity and trading. Once we account for selection, the estimated impact of local newspapers on volatility increases by over 40%. The reduction in volatility after non-distress-driven newspaper closures is larger for stocks subject to greater information frictions, lower national media coverage, firms located in remote areas, firms with a more concentrated geographic presence, and during recessions. All these tests suggest that investor information processing is the main channel that drives our results. Our findings highlight that the effect of media on financial markets may be larger than previously documented.

Keywords: media coverage, information processing, financial markets, return volatility, trading

JEL Classification: G14, G33, L82

Suggested Citation:

Cziraki, Peter and Gider, Jasmin, Newspaper Closures and Trading in Local Stocks (August 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Penny Abernathy
The State of Local News Report Posted: 2022
Kristian D Allee , Ryan Cating , Caleb Rawson
No news is bad news: local news intensity and firms' information environments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 30 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2025
Yakov Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Daniel Andrei , Michael Hasler
Investor Attention and Stock Market Volatility
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 33 - 72 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,504
RANK
204,108
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies