Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Road to False Positives: Sample Selection and Specification Choice in Randomized and Natural Experiments

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 25-2

Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 25-07

53 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2025 Last revised: 16 Jan 2025

Bernard S. Black

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Hemang Desai

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Kate Litvak

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Woongsun Yoo

Central Michigan University

Jeff Jiewei Yu

University of Arizona

Date Written: November 17, 2024

Abstract

During 2005-2007, the SEC conducted a randomized trial in which it removed shortsale restrictions from one-third of the Russell 3000 firms. Early studies found no effect of removing the restrictions on short interest, share returns, volatility, or price efficiency. In prior work, we confirm the lack of evidence for a natural causal channel that could explain these results (Black et al., 2024). Yet over 80 studies report evidence for a wide range of indirect effects on firms from the experiment. Given the lack of a causal channel, many of these results are likely to be false positives. We confirm that suspicion by closely reexamining the principal results from 10 of these studies using a simple specification with firm and year fixed effects. None of the results survive. We then examine best-match specifications that closely follow the sample selection, methodology and specification reported in the respective papers. Again, we mostly obtain null results. The gaps between reported and best match results reflects reported coefficients being much larger in magnitude, reported standard errors being much smaller than best-match, or both. The large gaps between best-match and reported results implies that the study authors made choices that are not evident from the explanation of their research design, which strongly affected the reported results. Our results suggest that researchers retain extensive discretion over the sample and model specification, even (as here) for a true randomized experiment. The choices in these studies produced statistically significant results when other reasonable choices would not. We draw lessons from our analysis for empirical practice and for ways in which researchers can find false positives results.

Keywords: natural experiments, causal channels, specification choice, Regulation SHO, SEC experiment, short-sale experiment

Suggested Citation:

Black, Bernard S. and Desai, Hemang and Litvak, Kate and Yoo, Woongsun and Yu, Jeff Jiewei, The Road to False Positives: Sample Selection and Specification Choice in Randomized and Natural Experiments (November 17, 2024). SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 25-2, Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 25-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,016
RANK
373,425
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies