Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Compensation in Competitive Labor Markets with Heterogeneous Employers and Workers

IZA Discussion Paper No. 17449

39 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Samuel Häfner

University of St. Gallen

Niklas Haeusle

University of Leipzig

Winfried Koeniger

University of St. Gallen; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Center for Financial Studies (CFS); IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Swiss Finance Institute

Alexander Braun

University of St. Gallen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We develop a model in which large risk-neutral firms and individual risk-averse consumers compete to employ heterogeneous workers by posting compensation menus. Production takes time, and we analyze how screening motives interact with the desire to smooth consumption. There is a unique symmetric separating equilibrium that is also efficient. In equilibrium, the extent to which the compensation scheme delays payment until the production quality becomes known depends on whether, and to which extent, the consumers are financially constrained. We discuss how our model relates to the design of compensation schemes in current online peer-to-peer markets.

Keywords: adverse selection, self selection, peer-to-peer markets, labor markets, capital market imperfections

JEL Classification: D15, D82, D86, E24, J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Häfner, Samuel and Haeusle, Niklas and Koeniger, Winfried and Braun, Alexander, Optimal Compensation in Competitive Labor Markets with Heterogeneous Employers and Workers. IZA Discussion Paper No. 17449, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5025526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D Autor
Wiring the labor market
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 40 Posted: 2001
G S Becker , G J Stigler
Law enforcement, malfeasance, and the compensation of enforcers
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 3 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1974
G Bertola , S Hochguertel , W Koeniger
Dealer pricing of consumer credit
International Economic Review , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 1103 - 1142 Posted: 2005
A Blinder , A B Krueger
Alternative measures of offshorability: a survey approach
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 97 - S128 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
417
RANK
713,291
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies