Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Tax Impact of Russia's Invasion of Ukraine: Issues Arising from an International Tax Perspective and What the Future May Hold in the Post-Invasion Period

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 2/3, Pages 97-104

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Mery Alvarado

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author addresses the main tax implications of the invasion of Ukraine and how governments have responded. It describes tax incentives of the Ukraine government, measures adopted by other European countries and EU institutions, tax issues facing Ukrainian refugees and the suspension of exchange of tax information agreements by certain European countries with Russia. Finally, some reflections are provided about possible changes in the tax landscape of Ukraine in a post-invasion era.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2ymmv1y

Keywords: tax incentive, double taxation, residence, employment income, exchange of information, VAT, excise duty, tax policy

Suggested Citation:

Alvarado, Mery, Assessing the Tax Impact of Russia's Invasion of Ukraine: Issues Arising from an International Tax Perspective and What the Future May Hold in the Post-Invasion Period. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 2/3, Pages 97-104, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2ymmv1y
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
57
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies