Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Reporting as a Tool for Greenwashing: Some Evidence from Australian Financially Distressed Firms

45 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2024

Anthony C. Ng

The University of Melbourne, Faculty of Business and Economics, Department of Economics; Sunway University

Dr Ferdinand Gul

University of the Sunshine Coast

Abstract

This study, using market prices, explores whether financially distressed firms voluntarily implement a higher level of integrated reporting (IR) as an impression management (IM) tool to obfuscate their financial reports (greenwashing). IR is measured as the extent to which integrated reports conform to the guideline principles provided by the International Integrated Reporting Centre (IIRC). Using Australian data for 2015-2017, we show that the relationship between IR conformity (IRC) and firm values for financially distressed firms is nonlinear and concave – positive at lower levels of IRC but becomes negative at higher levels. We also show that the relationship between IRC and bid-ask spread, the liquidity channel, for financially distressed firms is non-linear and convex. Additional tests on the relationship between IRC and earnings management proxies show that higher IR is associated with higher earnings management (higher obfuscation), thus corroborating our main findings.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Integrated Reporting, Firm Value, Impression Management, Obfuscation, Financial Distress, Greenwashing

Suggested Citation:

Ng, Anthony C. and Gul, Dr Ferdinand, Integrated Reporting as a Tool for Greenwashing: Some Evidence from Australian Financially Distressed Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5029121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5029121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
I Abeysekera
A template for integrated reporting
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 227 - 245 Posted: 2013
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
Acca)
Adoption of Integrated Reporting by the ASX 50 , volume 14 Posted: 2011-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
419
RANK
596,671
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies