Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing significance of financial leverage on financial performance of manufacturing industry: A case of cement sector of Pakistan

23 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Sheeraz Ahmed

Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology (SZABIST) - Karachi Campus

Baseer Aslam

Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology (SZABIST) - Karachi Campus

Muhammad Mujtaba Soomro

Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology (SZABIST) - Karachi Campus

Loukesh Sablani

Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology (SZABIST) - Karachi Campus

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of financial leverage which is created on the financial performance of the firms in case of cement manufacturing companies of Pakistan. The data was collected from 2014 to 2023 of Pakistan public sector cement manufacturing companies and the test and analysis found in the study indicates that financial leverage or debt burden impact the financial performance of the companies in a negative manner. The study uses the ROA, ROE and NPM to calculate the financial performance in relation to the debt to equity ratio. The result of the study indicates that the companies should adopt an optimal capital structure strategy with the balance of both debt and equity Keywords: Return on Equity (ROE), Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), Return on Assets (ROA), Debt to Equity (DE), Net Profit Margin (NPM).

Keywords: Financial Leverage, Cement Sector, Pakistan, Pakistan Manufacturing Industry, Return on Assets, ROA, Return on Equity, ROE, Net Profit Margin, NPM, Financial Performance, Debt to Equity, Gearing Ratio, Leverage impact Analysis, Capital Stucture

Declaration of Interest

I &amp; my co Authors declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this research paper. The study was conducted independently, and no external funding or influence from any organization, company, or individual affected the research, analysis, or conclusions presented in this paper.

Ethics Approval

This study did not involve human participants, patients, or case studies requiring ethical approval. The research was based solely on publicly available financial data from listed cement manufacturing companies in Pakistan, ensuring compliance with ethical research standards.

Funder Statement

This research was entirely self-funded by the authors as part of their academic thesis requirement. No external funding or financial support was received for conducting this study or preparing the manuscript.

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Sheeraz and Aslam, Baseer and Soomro, Muhammad Mujtaba and Sablani, Loukesh, Analyzing significance of financial leverage on financial performance of manufacturing industry: A case of cement sector of Pakistan (May 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5030742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5030742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
U Abbas
Effect of Financial Leverage on Firm Value: Evidence From Selected Firms Quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange
European Journal of Business and Management Posted: 2020
T N Bui
How do financial leverage and supply chain finance influence firm performance? Evidence from construction sector. Uncertain Supply Chain Management , p. 285 - 290 Posted: 2020
H Jiang
The Effect of Liquidity and Financial Leverage on Firm Performance: Evidence from Listed Manufacturing Firms on The Ghana Stock Exchange
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting Posted: 2019
M Markonah , A Salim , J Franciska
EFFECT OF PROFITABILITY, LEVERAGE, AND LIQUIDITY TO THE FIRM VALUE
Dinasti International Journal of Economics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 94 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
570
RANK
640,039
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies