Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Accruals via Machine Learning

Posted: 22 Jan 2025

Mikko Ranta

University of Vaasa

Henry Jarva

Hanken School of Economics

Elina Haapamäki

University of Vaasa

Date Written: November 26, 2024

Abstract

Our goal is to better understand the key determinants of accruals and their complex relationships. Using machine learning (ML) techniques, we analyze the accrual process without relying on the linearity assumptions inherent in ordinary least squares regressions. We find that prior-period sales growth, profitability, and previous accruals are the most significant predictors of current accruals. Our ML approach uncovers significant nonlinear relationships and interactions among these variables, revealing dynamics that linear models would struggle to identify. Furthermore, by decomposing accruals into expected and unexpected components using the ML model, we enhance the prediction of future earnings. These findings contribute to the accrual accounting literature by providing a more nuanced framework for accrual estimation and demonstrate the value of integrating advanced analytical techniques in accounting research to improve financial reporting practices.

Keywords: accruals, machine learning, prediction

JEL Classification: C53, C63, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ranta, Mikko and Jarva, Henry and Haapamäki, Elina, Understanding Accruals via Machine Learning (November 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034402
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
294
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies