Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dropout in Undergraduate Accounting Programs at a UK University: A 10-Year Longitudinal Study

44 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2024

Martin Roberts

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Neeta Shah

University of Westminster

Dafydd Mali

University of Nottingham

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper provides an analysis of 10 years of dropout data from two accounting programmes - Accounting & Finance and Forensic Accounting at a UK university. The study explores whether dropout rates are equivalent for demographic groups based on diversity and whether dropout rates are consistent across the two undergraduate accounting degrees. Data was collected from a population of 6,948 students over a period of 10 years, from 2011 to 2021. The results of this empirical analysis show a consistent pattern as to when and why the students leave. First, the main reason identified for a student dropping out of an accounting degree is mainly due to academic failure. Second, the results show that students usually drop out at either the early or the final stages of their degree. Third, the study also identifies significantly higher dropout rates among specific demographic groups, such as Arab females and Asian males. Fourth, our results show that the dropout rates between the two accounting programs are significant. This study enables the development of and appropriate initiatives to enhance students' performance in accounting to avoid dropouts. This paper offers practical solutions to educators for supporting and retaining students of different cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds.

Keywords: accounting education, dropout, academic failure, forensic accounting, diversity

Suggested Citation:

Roberts, Martin and Shah, Neeta and Mali, Dafydd, Dropout in Undergraduate Accounting Programs at a UK University: A 10-Year Longitudinal Study. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5035335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5035335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
150 References
P Adu
A Step-by-Step Guide to Qualitative Data Coding Posted: 2019
K A Ahmed , N Sharif , N Ahmad
Factors influencing students' career choices: Empirical evidence from business students
Journal of Southeast Asian Research , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2017
R Ajjawi , M Dracup , N Zacharias , S Bennett , D Boud
Persisting students' explanations of and emotional responses to academic failure
Higher Education Research and Development , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 185 - 199 Posted: 2020
F S Alanezi , M M Alfraih , A E Haddad , N A Altaher
Factors influencing students' choice of accounting as a major: Further evidence from Kuwait
Global Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 177 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
RANK
521,100
150 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies