Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Routine Companies with Special Consideration of the Business Specificity (Probability of Termination)

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 195-204

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Felix Ebeling

Independent

Alexander Meyer

Independent

D. Schilling

Independent

Abstract

In this study the authors have empirically analysed the lifetime of so-called routine companies by considering around 60,000 companies from the Orbis database. The study does not show a significantly different lifetime of routine companies compared to non-routine companies. However, for routine companies, one may assume an annual termination probability between 5% and 7% when valuing such a company.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2h8a553

Keywords: transfer pricing, valuation, risk, functional analysis

Suggested Citation:

Ebeling, Felix and Meyer, Alexander and Schilling, D., Valuation of Routine Companies with Special Consideration of the Business Specificity (Probability of Termination). International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 195-204, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037316 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2h8a553
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
117
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies