Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating a Covid-19 Crisis Effect Using Ai Techniques

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 194-201

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Christian Schwarz

Independent

A. Wessely

Independent

Sebastian Hoffmann

Independent

J. Wickerath

Independent

M. Lagarden

Independent

M. Beckmann

Independent

Abstract

In December 2020, the OECD released guidance on certain aspects of transfer pricing in view of the disruptive situation created by the COVID-19 pandemic. The comparability analysis was addressed therein as one of the main focus areas with regard to benchmarking and the collection of other quantitative evidence usually employed by corporate taxpayers in their transfer pricing documentation. As the burden of proof remains with the taxpayers and the question which quantitative approaches they could adopt has become highly relevant, this article provides some concrete examples for industry practitioners and other interested stakeholders demonstrating which kind of statistical methods and artificial intelligence-supported quantitative approaches can be employed to deliver robust empirical evidence ex ante for taxpayers’ compliance with the arm’s length principle in their intercompany transactions during a crisis situation like the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/abjdhz

Keywords: transfer pricing, COVID-19 pandemic, AI, comparability analysis, arm's length principle

Suggested Citation:

Schwarz, Christian and Wessely, A. and Hoffmann, Sebastian and Wickerath, J. and Lagarden, M. and Beckmann, M., Estimating a Covid-19 Crisis Effect Using Ai Techniques. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 194-201, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/abjdhz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
96
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies