Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Performance in Nigerian Manufacturing Companies: Carbon Emission and Accounting Perspectives

33 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2024

Adedayo Ajibare

Glasgow Caledonian University

Khadijah Idowu

Lagos State University

Oluwaseun Oguntuase

Centre for Environmental Studies and Sustainable Development (CESSED)

Abstract

Considering the developing nations’ uninspiring drive towards green and sustainable investments, this research assessed the factors influencing the performance of manufacturing firms in Nigeria, focusing on carbon emissions and the quality of accounting information. The study examined the relationship between accounting information quality, carbon emissions, and firm performance using data from ten manufacturing companies' annual reports between 2017 and 2022. Employing a panel study approach, the quality of accounting information was evaluated using the methodology of Ellili (2013), while data on carbon emissions were extrapolated due to limited availability. Return on equity (ROE) and return on assets (ROA) were the performance indicators, while carbon emissions and accounting information quality served as the explanatory variables, leaving revenue as the control variable. Changes in carbon emissions and revenue were standardized to ensure comparability across variables. The study concluded that carbon emissions have a strong negative influence on ROE. In contrast, contrary to an expectation of a positive association, accounting information also had a negative relationship with both ROE and ROA. The research recommended that policymakers should consider enforcing mandatory, timelier, and more comprehensive disclosure requirements for manufacturing firms while variously incentivizing the adoption of renewable energy technologies.

Keywords: Accounting Information, Carbon Emission, Manufacturing Companies, Nigeria, Performance Determinants

Suggested Citation:

Ajibare, Adedayo and Idowu, Khadijah and Oguntuase, Oluwaseun, Determinants of Performance in Nigerian Manufacturing Companies: Carbon Emission and Accounting Perspectives. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5039128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5039128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Abdisalam Abdulle , Salad
Impact of Computerized Accounting Information System on Small and Medium Enterprises in Mogadishu, Somalia: The Balance Scorecard Perspectives
International Journal of Engineering and Advanced Technology , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 159 - 165 Posted: 2019
B J Ali
Information Quality and the Organizational Effectiveness: The Moderating Effects of Organizational Culture among Conventional and Islamic Banks
Australian Journal of Business and Management Research , volume 5 , issue 10 Posted: 2019
I G Alvarez
Impact of CO2 Emission Variation on Firm Performance
Bus. Strat. Environ , volume 21 , p. 435 - 454 Posted: 2012
Isibor Akhanolu , Areghan
Carbon Disclosure, Board Climate Governance and Financial Performance of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Nigeria
International Journal of Energy Economics and Policy , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 187 - 193 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
410
RANK
785,077
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies