Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seasonal Variation in Cash Flows and the Timing Role of Accruals


80 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Sep 2025

Martin M. Kapons

INSEAD

David Veenman

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School (ABS)

Date Written: December 03, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the function of accruals in measuring quarterly firm performance. We show that operating accruals play a pronounced role in offsetting quarterly cash flows shocks and that this timing role is much stronger than concluded based on annual measurements in the recent literature. A fundamental driver of this timing role of accruals is the significant seasonal variation in operating cash flows, which is determined by the interaction between sales seasonality and working capital policies. We further find that the seasonality in cash flows and the offsetting role of accruals have declined over time. We link this trend to international diversification, trends in the importance and seasonality of retail sales, zero-inventory firms, market power, and the rise in supply chain finance.

Keywords: Accrual accounting, cash flows, earnings, seasonality, quarterly reporting, working capital, trade credit

Suggested Citation:

Kapons, Martin M. and Veenman, David, Seasonal Variation in Cash Flows and the Timing Role of Accruals
(December 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5042551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5042551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual Reversals, Earnings and Stock Returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
H Almeida , D Carvalho , T Kim
The Working Capital Credit Multiplier
The Journal of Finance , volume 79 , issue 6 , p. 4247 - 4302 Posted: 2024
R Ball , V V Nikolaev
On Earnings and Cash Flows as Predictors of Future Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 73 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Relative Valuation Roles of Equity Book Value and Net Income as a Function of Financial Health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
RANK
366,153
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies