Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Digital Shift in Budgeting During Times of Crisis

39 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2024

Mika Ylinen

University of Vaasa

Marko Järvenpää

University of Vaasa, accounting and finance

Mikko Ranta

University of Vaasa

Abstract

This research explores the dynamic interplay between crisis sensitivity, budgeting practices, and digitalization efforts within the context of recent global crises. Drawing on qualitative interviews from twenty diverse companies across various industries, augmented with a machine learning analysis of annual and sustainability reports, this study provides a nuanced understanding of how crises shape financial and digital strategies in the budgeting context. We posit that the degree of crisis sensitivity significantly influences a company's digitalization initiatives, with those more affected by crises demonstrating a greater propensity towards digital transformation. Moreover, our research indicates that these crises prompt the implementation of more sophisticated budgeting practices to address the challenges of heightened uncertainty. Additionally, we identify a clear link between adopting advanced budgeting practices, such as rolling forecasting, and the digitalization of budgeting processes. Companies that prioritize digitalization at the organizational level and employ sophisticated budgeting techniques are more likely to accelerate their digital transformation in response to crises. This study contributes to the literature on management accounting and digitalization by highlighting the critical role of advanced budgeting practices as a facilitator of digital adoption in times of uncertainty. Our research underscores the importance of budgeting flexibility and integrating digital priorities into financial planning as key drivers for resilience and adaptation in the face of global challenges.

Keywords: Budgeting, Crisis, Digitalization, Forecasting, Advanced Analytics, Artificial Intelligence

Suggested Citation:

Ylinen, Mika and Järvenpää, Marko and Ranta, Mikko, The Digital Shift in Budgeting During Times of Crisis. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5047134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5047134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Acca
The smart alliance: Accounting expertise meets machine intelligence Posted: 2024-11-04
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
The impact of firm characteristics on management accounting practices: A UK-based empirical analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 27 Posted: 2008
T Ahrens , C Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
T Ahrens , J Dent
Accounting and organizations: Realizing the richness of field research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,155
RANK
394,708
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies