Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning Fundamentals from Text

Chicago Booth Accounting Research Center Research Paper

Fama-Miller Working Paper

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2024-155

53 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2024 Last revised: 24 Feb 2025

Alex G. Kim

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

Maximilian Muhn

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Valeri V. Nikolaev

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

Yijing Zhang

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

We introduce a novel approach to learning the information that investors react to when processing textual information. We use the attention mechanism that learns to identify content that triggers market reactions to disclosed information. The explanatory power of the attention-based model significantly exceeds that of attention-free models. We then develop and analyze a comprehensive set of topics discussed in companies' annual reports. Segment information, goodwill and intangibles, revenues, and operating income are the topics that receive the most attention from investors. Despite their prominence in the public discourse, sustainability and governance are consistently among the least important topics judging by the market reactions. Building on our approach, we show that regulatory interventions can successfully enhance the relevance of textual communication. We also show that firms strategically position information within MD&A to influence investor focus. Our findings underscore the value of attention-based analysis of corporate communications and open new avenues for future work.

Keywords: Attention mechanism, information relevance, fundamentals, information processing, corporate disclosure, investor attention, large language models, LLM

JEL Classification: C45, C55, G12, G17

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Alex G. and Muhn, Maximilian and Nikolaev, Valeri V. and Zhang, Yijing, Learning Fundamentals from Text (November 18, 2024). Chicago Booth Accounting Research Center Research Paper, Fama-Miller Working Paper, University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2024-155, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5047947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5047947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R Ball , J Gerakos , J T Linnainmaa , V V Nikolaev
Deflating profitability
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 248 Posted: 2015
R Bloomfield
Discussion of "annual report readability, current earnings, and earnings persistence
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2-3 , p. 248 - 252 Posted: 2008
B J Bushee , I D Gow , D J Taylor
Linguistic complexity in firm disclosures: Obfuscation or information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 121 Posted: 2018
L Bybee , B Kelly , A Manela , D Xiu
Business news and business cycles
The Journal of Finance , volume 79 , issue 5 , p. 3105 - 3147 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,794
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,754
RANK
22,078
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies