Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unprotected Investors Between Brokers' Unethical Conduct and Corporations' Hidden Misuse of Continuing Accounting Issues: A Prediction for no Investors' Conservatism

27 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: December 08, 2024

Abstract

I present in this paper my view regarding the expected decision by the unprotected investor (Investor), which is likely to be of no conservatism, while facing possible unethical conduct by brokers, and while facing possible corporations' misuse of accounting issues. This paper predicts, using a game theory, the decision of investors as player (A), and brokers and corporations, as two players (B) in two games (1) and (2), regarding the investment decision in the financial markets. I use a mathematical approach in the game theory and linear programming solved by a simplex algorithm, the approach is based on the motives of unethical conducts and actions to be taken by brokers, and also based on the motive for corporations to misuse the accounting issues to attract investors to invest in the financial markets. The unethical motives variables are the inputs to the mathematical approach, where I assign weights for the importance of each variable of the motives in a payoff matrix that affects the game between the investor and both the broker and the corporation. The mathematical results of the game show that investors' best decision is to invest in the financial markets, whereas, hypothesis H1 of this paper is verified, where investors decide to invest in the financial market regardless of such unethical actions taken by brokers and corporations. Therefore, the paper's results are significant for showing that the economic recessions and lack of new ideas for investments in products and services are likely to push investors to take the risk of investing in the financial market, and undermine the conservatism, even though the likelihood of unethical actions taken by brokers and corporations are highly expected. This paper encourages future research to follow up on how regulators will prevent or limit the unethical actions conducted by both the brokers and the corporations, and how investors can found new businesses for investing their money away from the financial markets, particularly when the unethical conducts evolve in the financial markets as a result of the economic recessions and lack of opportunities to manufacture and provide new services and ideas to the customers. Future research can replicate my study as to investigate in the future how economies will drive investors to investment opportunities of manufacturing and providing services, hence, brokers and corporations may limit their unethical actions and instead provide relevant and faithful or reliable information to the investors as a consequence of economies booming.

Keywords: Unprotected investors, brokers unethical actions, corporations misuse of accounting issues, investors conservatism

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Unprotected Investors Between Brokers' Unethical Conduct and Corporations' Hidden Misuse of Continuing Accounting Issues: A Prediction for no Investors' Conservatism (December 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5048304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5048304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
T G Aarat , S Narang , A Saran
Ethical issues in the stock market Posted: 2016
J J Angel , D Mccabe
Ethical standards for stockbrokers: Fiduciary or suitability?
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 115 , p. 183 - 193 Posted: 2013
A M Game , A Gregoriou
Do brokers act in the best interests of their clients? New evidence from electronic trading systems
Business Ethics: A European Review , volume 25 , p. 187 - 197 Posted: 2014
B Hannibal
Relationships of collapse: network brokerage, opportunism and fraud in financial markets
International Journal of Social Economics , volume 44 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
405
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies