Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decomposition Error in Accruals and Cash Flows: Implications for Inferences about Accrual Quality

55 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2025

Wei Chen

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Daniel W. Collins

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Paul Hribar

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting; University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

David Volant

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: December 04, 2024

Abstract

Prior research documents that measuring accruals using year-over-year changes in balance sheet (BS) accounts introduces non-articulation measurement error (Hribar & Collins, 2002). When these mismeasured accruals are used to derive cash flows (i.e., earnings minus accruals), the non-articulation error transfers into cash flow measurement, resulting in negatively correlated decomposition errors in accruals and cash flows. We demonstrate analytically and empirically that, when BS measures of accruals and cash flows are used as regressors, the negatively correlated errors bias the coefficient estimates on accruals and cash flows toward each other. We further demonstrate that this bias can contribute to errors of inference (particularly Type II errors) in studies using differential persistence as a measure of accrual quality. Our paper is broadly relevant to research using decomposed variables as regressors.

Keywords: negatively correlated measurement error, decomposition, backed-into variable, differential persistence, balance sheet accruals, type I error, type II error

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wei and Collins, Daniel W. and Hribar, Paul and Volant, David, Decomposition Error in Accruals and Cash Flows: Implications for Inferences about Accrual Quality (December 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
C Allen , R Larson , Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
K Asare
Earnings Persistence and Levels of the Accrual Ratio and Discretionary Accruals
Journal of Business, Economics and Technology Posted: 2019
B A Badertscher , J Kim , W R Kinney , E Owens
Assurance level choice, CPA fees, and financial reporting benefits: Inferences from US private firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 Posted: 2023
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetric timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
619
RANK
531,089
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies