Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sentiment Management: AI-based Evidence from Earnings Guidance

58 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2025 Last revised: 20 May 2025

Jonathan Berkovitch

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Business and Management

Doron Israeli

IDC Herzliya - Arison School of Business; Nazarbayev University - Graduate School of Business

Ron Kasznik

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Date Written: January 20, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether firms manage sentiment within their disclosures, and whether such sentiment management plays a role in shaping investor reactions to information. Using FinBERT, an AI-based pre-trained large language model, we measure sentiment separately in the title, various portions of the text, and the full text of earnings guidance. We focus on earnings guidance because firms have considerable discretion over the type, level, and structure of sentiment they include in these disclosures. Our findings indicate firms amplify (suppress) the tone of positive (negative) information in the title and enhance the positive sentiment in the first portions of earnings guidance text. We do not find similar patterns in Wall Street Journal (WSJ) articles or titles generated by ChatGPT-4o for the same earnings guidance text. We show that this sentiment management is more pronounced among firms that miss analysts’ earnings forecasts and firms with lower scrutiny and litigation risk. We also document that sentiment in the title, as well as in the first portions of the text, helps explain investor reactions to information in earnings guidance. Together, our findings suggest firms strategically embed sentiment within corporate disclosures, and investors incorporate this sentiment into stock prices and trading activity.

Keywords: Sentiment management, Earnings guidance, Investor reactions

Suggested Citation:

Berkovitch, Jonathan and Israeli, Doron and Kasznik, Ron, Sentiment Management: AI-based Evidence from Earnings Guidance (January 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5051800 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5051800
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The Structure of Voluntary Disclosure Narratives: Evidence from Tone Dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
D Araci
Finbert: Financial sentiment analysis with pre-trained language models Posted: 2019
M Azimi , A Agrawal
Is positive sentiment in corporate annual reports informative? evidence from deep learning
The Review of Asset Pricing Studies , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 762 - 805 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
RANK
210,792
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies