Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of ESG Rating Disagreement on Management Tone Manipulation—Evidence from China

26 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2024

Hua Chen

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

zhuang wang

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

ESG ratings play a pivotal role in bridging listed companies with the capital market. However, significant discrepancies exist among rating agencies' assessments of a company's ESG performance, making it challenging for the market to accurately evaluate the firm's sustainable development capabilities. This not only causes confusion among investors but also increases pressure on corporate management. Based on a set of data from rating results of Chinese A-share listed companies from 2015 to 2022, this paper empirically examines the impact and underlying mechanism of ESG rating disagreement on management tone manipulation. The study finds that: (1) ESG rating disagreement significantly intensifies the degree of management tone manipulation. (2) ESG rating disagreement increases the market pressure faced by management, which is the motivation factor for management to intensify the degree of tone manipulation; The noise effect of ESG rating disagreement is an opportunity factor for management to intensify tone manipulation. (3) In situations of ESG rating disagreement, management tone manipulation significantly elevates the risk of stock price crashes for listed companies. The conclusions of this study not only enrich the research on ESG rating disagreement and textual tone in listed companies but also hold significant practical implications for regulators in standardizing information disclosure by listed companies and ESG rating criteria.

Keywords: ESG rating disagreement, management tone manipulation, capital market pressure

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hua and wang, zhuang, Impact of ESG Rating Disagreement on Management Tone Manipulation—Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5052292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5052292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A K Chatterji , R Durand , D I Levine , S Touboul
Do ratings of firms converge? Implications for managers, investors and strategy researchers , volume 37 , p. 1597 - 1614 Posted: 2016
Dane & Christensen , George & Serafeim , Anywhere Sikochi
Why is Corporate Virtue in the Eye of The Beholder? The Case of ESG Ratings
The Accounting Review Posted: 2021
Florian & Berger , Kölbel , Roberto Julian & Rigobon
Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 Posted: 2022
R Gibson Brandon , P Krueger , P S Schmidt
ESG Rating Disagreement and Stock Returns
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 104 - 127 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
734
RANK
626,940
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies