Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Determining The Performance Of Conventional Banks In Pakistan

27 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2025

Waqas Khan

SZABIST Karachi

Shayan Raza

SZABIST Karachi

Waqas Ullah Khan

SZABIST Karachi

Date Written: May 22, 2024

Abstract

Pakistan's commercial banking industry, comprising local and foreign banks, with local banks categorized into public, private, and specialized banks, has seen an increase in return on equity (ROE) from 13.27% in fiscal year 2019 to 16.99% in fiscal year 2020, and return on assets (ROA) rose from 0.83% to 1.07% during the same period. While various studies have assessed different efficiencies of commercial banks (CBs) in Pakistan, it is noted that none of the researchers integrated non-performing loans (NPLs) into their DEA models or applied the super-SBM model for benchmarking efficient decision-making units (DMUs) in the banking sector. Additionally, despite past evidence of a positive association between bank Total assets andefficiency, there is a gap in research regarding the distinction of efficiency between the big 5 Pakistani CBs and other domestic CBs (Wasi Ul Hassan Shah, 2022)

There are also many empirical works against the pecking order theory. Many authors observed a positive relationship between profitability and debt levels in their studies. It has been havingreported a significantly positive relationship between the ratio of short-term debt to total assets and profitability but a negative association between the ratio of long-term debt to total assets and profitability. (Sahadev Bhatt, 2020)

In the context of commercial banks, ROA is an important metric that reflects the bank's ability to generate profits from its assets.

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Waqas and Raza, Shayan and Khan, Waqas Ullah, Factors Determining The Performance Of Conventional Banks In Pakistan (May 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5064097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5064097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
N Akhter
The Impact of Liquidity and Profitability on Operational Efficiency of Selected Commercial Banks in Bangladesh: A Panel Data Study
Journal of Management and Business Research: A Administration and Management Posted: 2018
Hatif Ameerh , H H Haddaweea , R Ekinci , G Poyraz
The Relationship between Bank Deposits and Profitability for • Commercial Banks
International Journal of Innovation, Creativity and Change , volume 158 , p. 979 - 987 Posted: 2019
H Y Gang Hao
Efficiency evaluation of commercial banks in Pakistan: A slacks-based measure Super-SBM approach with bad output Posted: 2022
A Haddawee , H Flayyih
The Relationship between Bank Deposits and Profitability for Commercial Banks
International Journal of Innovation, Creativity and Change. Www.ijicc.net , volume 13 , issue 7 Posted: 2020-11-22
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
374
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies