Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MANAGERIAL ACCOUNTING -A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW OF SPECIALTY LITERATURE

10 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Cristina (Castrase) Didea

1 Decembrie 1918 University from Alba Iulia

Alexandra Delia Bugnariu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Simion Iosif Mihon

1 Decembrie 1918 University from Alba Iulia

Date Written: June 19, 2024

Abstract

The literature outlines an evolutionary conceptual framework of managerial accounting, based both on writings and historical documentary attestations, and on the documents of entities considered pioneers in the application and development of management accounting today. The main objective of the scientific approach is to review the literature on the notion of managerial accounting using a tool for systematic review of it, in order to identify and summarize the most relevant research and directions on the studied topic.

Keywords: managerial accounting, systematic review, bibliometric analysis JEL Codes: M21, M49

Suggested Citation:

(Castrase) Didea, Cristina and Bugnariu, Alexandra Delia and Mihon, Simion Iosif, MANAGERIAL ACCOUNTING -A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW OF SPECIALTY LITERATURE (June 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5083181 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5083181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
S Chelcea
Metodologia cercetării sociologice
Editura. Economică, București Posted: 2007
I Evian , N
Contabilitatea industrială Posted: 1947
R Fleischman , Th Tyson
Cost Accounting during the Industrial Revolution: The present State of Historical Knowledge
The Economic History Review Posted: 1993
A Groşanu
Calculaţia costurilor pe centre de profit Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
396
RANK
888,754
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies