Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online Video Game Laundering: A Bayesian Trial

12 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2025

James Higgs

The University of Tulsa

Stephen V. Flowerday

The University of Tulsa

Date Written: July 31, 2024

Abstract

While prevailing scholarly opinion often emphasizes the suitability of virtual worlds to small-scale laundering operations, this paper challenges this perspective. Previous literature has overlooked the substantial monetary value associated with online gaming accounts and virtual assets, particularly given the rapid growth of the microtransaction business model. The growing demand for virtual items and currency has provided diverse channels for cybercriminals to convert their illicit funds from account and virtual theft. This paper addresses this gap by presenting three novel arguments supporting the view that the online video gaming ecosystem allows for laundering to occur at scale. Arguments are corroborated by empirical data of Roblox's virtual economy-the Limiteds marketplace-where 1.45 million transactions from Jan 1st to Dec 31st, 2023, are analyzed. The findings overwhelming support the conclusion that the online video gaming ecosystem allows for large scale laundering to occur.

Keywords: Virtual Laundering, Cybercrime, Virtual worlds, Online Video Gaming, Social Engineering

Suggested Citation:

Higgs, James and Flowerday, Stephen V., Online Video Game Laundering: A Bayesian Trial (July 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5087476 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5087476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Activision Blizzard 2022 Annual Report Posted: 2022
T Anderson , D Schum , W Twinning
Analysis of Evidence Posted: 2005
T Cai , L Du , Y Xin , L Y C Chang
Characteristics of Cybercrimes: Evidence from Chinese Judgment Documents
Police Practice and Research , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 582 - 595 Posted: 2018
S D Cassella
Toward a New Model of Money Laundering
Journal of Money Laundering Control , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 494 - 497 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
462
RANK
759,411
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies