Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncertainty Words and Corporate Information Environment

42 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2025

Kai Yao

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Thanaset Chevapatrakul

Nottingham University Business School

Thach Vu Hong Nguyen

University of Sheffield

Shiyan YIN

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of the uncertainty tone in a firm’s annual report on stock price informativeness. We show that firms with a higher proportion of uncertainty words in 10-Ks have lower stock idiosyncratic risk. Our results suggest that the uncertainty tone of a firm's financial disclosures results in information uncertainty that deteriorates its stock price informativeness. While the tone dispersion amplifies the relation between uncertainty tone and firm-specific risk, the use of causation and discrepancy words attenuates this effect. Furthermore, external oversight mechanisms including analysts following, institutional holdings, audit quality and more frequent access to 10-Ks undermine the impact of uncertainty tone. Our findings highlight the influence that managers can exert on corporate transparency with the use of linguistic tone in financial reports.

Keywords: Idiosyncratic Risk, uncertainty tone, Textual Analysis, stock return synchronicity, stock price informativeness

Suggested Citation:

Yao, Kai and Chevapatrakul, Thanaset and Nguyen, Thach and YIN, Shiyan, Uncertainty Words and Corporate Information Environment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5089849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5089849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
E Agliardi , R Agliardi , W Spanjers
Corporate financing decisions under ambiguity: Pecking order and liquidity policy implications
Journal of Business Research , volume 69 , issue 12 , p. 6012 - 6020 Posted: 2016
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The Structure of Voluntary Disclosure Narratives: Evidence from Tone Dispersion: The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
E W Anderson , E Ghysels , J L Juergens
The impact of risk and uncertainty on expected returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 263 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
913
RANK
785,077
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies