Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of IPO in Wealth Creation for Retail Investors with reference to Indian Stock Market

9 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2025

Vishal Gupta

Laxmichand Golwala College

Date Written: June 01, 2022

Abstract

IPO refers to Initial Public Offer. When a company issue shares in the primary market, then it is knows as IPO. There may be various reasons for issue of IPO. It may be raised fund for expansion of business, for releasing capital of previous promoters or may be due to statutory guidelines provided by SEBI as well as Companies Act.

            In our research we will cover the point of view of retail investors with reference to Indian Stock Market. In India there is a lot of craze of people toward IPO, because it is very attractive for the listing date gain, so many small investors and retailers attract towards IPO. In our research we will discuss how the retail investors can increase their chances of IPO allotment to them. We will also discuss the common mistakes done by the people, which make them always prohibited from allotment and don’t get IPO.

            In IPO there may be two prices one is cap price and other is floor price, but normally IPO is allotted at CAP price.

            In our study we will cover the various methods of finding out the fair price.

            In our study we will cover why may times investors are attracted for IPO’s

            In our study we will cover that, is it actually that much useful for the investors.

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Vishal, Role of IPO in Wealth Creation for Retail Investors with reference to Indian Stock Market (June 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5089211 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5089211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies