Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How ESG Indicators Moderate the Impact of Cash Flow on Investment

68 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2025

Khine Kyaw

NTNU Business School

Julio Pindado

University of Salamanca

Chabela de la Torre

University of Salamanca

Abstract

This study examines the moderating role of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) indicators on the sensitivity of corporate investment to cash flow fluctuations. Employing the generalized method of moments for our estimations, we provide new evidence using a sample of 1,335 companies from 2004 to 2023. Our empirical analysis shows that ESG engagement significantly influences the positive sensitivity of investment to cash flow. We find that the moderating role of ESG varies depending on the source of the investment–cash flow sensitivity. Specifically, in financially constrained firms, high ESG engagement exacerbates the reliance of investment on cash flow, potentially causing these firms to divert resources from positive net present value projects and giving rise to an underinvestment problem. Conversely, firms with high free cash flow and strong ESG engagement demonstrate a propensity for overinvestment, consistent with agency theory and the hypothesis that ESG initiatives may reflect managerial discretion rather than shareholder value maximization. We also show that firms with high dividends and ESG engagement exhibit heightened sensitivity of investment to cash flow, underscoring the resource competition between ESG activities and shareholder returns. In contrast, R&D-intensive and high-ESG engagement firms show a lower sensitivity of investment to cash flow, likely due to the perceived strategic value and growth potential, which facilitates access to external financing and mitigates internal funding constraints. These novel findings contribute to the literature by highlighting the dual-edged nature of ESG engagement in shaping corporate investment behavior.

Keywords: cash flow, investment, ESG, environmental, social, governance, dynamic panel data

Suggested Citation:

Kyaw, Khine and Pindado, Julio and de la Torre, Chabela, How ESG Indicators Moderate the Impact of Cash Flow on Investment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5095973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5095973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
795
RANK
508,187
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies