Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping New Risks in Impact Investing. A Bibliometric Analysis of Emerging Challenges and Threats.

87 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

Simona Zambelli

University of Florence - Department of Business Economics

Francesca Pascale

University of Pisa

Date Written: January 27, 2025

Abstract

Over the last decade, impact investing has received increasing attention in the financial
literature. Along with this increased attention, new challenges have emerged, driving a
growing academic debate, particularly concerning impact assessment and transparency.
Despite the increasing interest in impact investing, a comprehensive literature review on
emerging challenges is still lacking. Our study contributes to filling this gap by mapping
the evolving landscape of impact investing through a bibliometric analysis of 116 peerreviewed
studies, from 2012 to 2024, with a specific focus on emerging challenges and
threats. With the adoption of VOSviewer, we map major research streams and new risks,
including greenwashing and impact washing, which erode stakeholder trust and
jeopardize the efficacy of the entire impact investing field. Our findings emphasize the
need for clearer impact measurement guidelines and standardized impact reporting
mechanisms in order to enhance transparency and prevent unethical practices, thereby
fostering sustainable development.

Suggested Citation:

Zambelli, Simona and Pascale, Francesca, Mapping New Risks in Impact Investing. A Bibliometric Analysis of Emerging Challenges and Threats. (January 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5101404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5101404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
RANK
600,884
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies