Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modern Technology-Driven Financial Reporting vs. Traditional Methods: Cost Optimization in the GCC Dairy Sector

65 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2025 Last revised: 11 Feb 2025

Muhammad Waqas Shaikh

The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA); Farm Craft Global WLL Qatar; Oxford Brookes University; Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA); Universidade de Évora - Chartered Global Management Accountant; Karachi University Business School, Students

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

Financial reporting plays an important role in establishing a company's business goals and regulatory compliance. For many years, organizations employed traditional processes for creating financial reports, primarily by hand, which, while results-oriented, took a long time to complete and may occasionally contain some amount of mistake. Modern technology has changed this environment by offering several automated and data-driven solutions that significantly increase process efficiency and clarity. This study intends to compare the efficiency of modern technologically improved financial reporting processes versus traditional techniques, with an emphasis on cost in the GCC dairy sector. In contrast, the core and important areas of productivity, technology development, cost-effectiveness, and service improvement are intended to be facilitated by comparative analysis, service comparisons, case studies, and quantitative measurement instruments. This study analyzes real-life GCC dairy enterprises to illustrate how advanced technology improves the value of financial reporting, reduces organizational expenditures, and boosts organizational performance. The study highlights the possibility for current reporting techniques to match with global practice, giving a competitive edge in the international market while simultaneously allowing for the sustainable use of resources in concentrated sectors. This study benefits policymakers, industry participants, and financial managers by making recommendations for the use of technology in the compilation of more thorough financial reports.  It highlights topics for investigation and offers concrete, doable recommendations for enhancing the advancements of the supplemental and effective reporting system in the dairy industry as well as other business sectors.

Suggested Citation:

Shaikh, Muhammad Waqas Umer, Modern Technology-Driven Financial Reporting vs. Traditional Methods: Cost Optimization in the GCC Dairy Sector (December 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5111065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5111065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Al-Hajri , G M Abdella , H Al-Yafei , S Aseel , A M Hamouda
A Systematic Literature Review of the Digital Transformation in the Arabian Gulf ' s Oil and Gas Sector Posted: 2024
M Abdulaal
Examining the monopolistic behavior on the dairy industry consumers, economy, and society in Qatar Posted: 2024
N Al-Abdelmalek , M Kucukvar , N C Onat , E Fares
Transforming challenges into opportunities for Qatar's food industry: Self-sufficiency, sustainability, and global food trade diversification Posted: 2023
A Alessa
Leveraging technologies in milk traceability to improve supply chain performance: A qualitative study of the Saudi dairy industry Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
581
RANK
618,405
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies