Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Perceptions of Tax Transparency

48 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2025

Inga Hardeck

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Olivia Hohlwegler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kerry Inger

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Rebekah Moore

James Madison University; James Madison University

Abstract

We investigate stakeholder perceptions of events leading up to the introduction of the first standard for tax-related sustainability reporting, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 207. Issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB), GRI is the dominant framework worldwide for voluntary sustainability reporting. First, we examine the perceptions of a broad group of stakeholders by analyzing comment letter responses to the GRI 207 exposure draft, finding that a majority of these responses support the standard and highlight increasing demand for tax transparency. Next, we focus on preparers of tax transparency reports by conducting qualitative interviews. Interviewees commented on the increasing pressure for clients to provide tax information but also expressed concerns about the implementation costs and scepticism about the benefits. Finally, we use an event study to examine investor-specific perceptions in which we document significant negative average cumulative abnormal returns surrounding events leading up to the adoption of GRI 207 for a sample of GRI-reporting firms. We interpret this result as evidence that investors perceive the costs of tax transparency under the new standard to be greater than the benefits. Our results reflect the disparity of perceptions about tax transparency reporting across stakeholder groups, creating a challenging environment for firms, their stakeholders, and standard setters.

Keywords: tax transparency, sustainability reporting, country by country reporting

Suggested Citation:

Hardeck, Inga and Hohlwegler, Olivia and Inger, Kerry and Moore, Rebekah, Stakeholder Perceptions of Tax Transparency. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5111281 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5111281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
593
RANK
560,066
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies