Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Methods Matter: How Implementation Choices Shape Topic Discovery in Financial Text

104 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2025 Last revised: 23 Sep 2025

Mahmoud Gad

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Gitae Park

City University London - Bayes Business School

Sam Rawsthorne

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Steven Young

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the application of LDA topic modelling to risk disclosures in FTSE350 firms’ annual reports. We show that LDA implementation choices significantly impact topic representations and subsequent inferences. Using a corpus of FTSE350 annual reports, we show that preprocessing decisions, multiword expressions, and labelling strategies materially affect topic interpretability and granularity. Our analysis reveals that while risk reporting addresses key business risks at an aggregate level, the degree of firm-specific commentary is sensitive to topic granularity. Hierarchical linear modelling suggests that 27% of topic variation is within firms for broad topics, increasing to 75% for granular topics. We leverage GPT to enhance topic labelling, showcasing the potential of LLMs in financial text analysis. We also compare LDA to modern embedding-based topic models, finding that while they often generate more coherent topics, they introduce a new set of critical implementation choices and do not eliminate the need for researcher discretion. These findings challenge the claims of LDA objectivity and highlight the importance of domain expertise. We propose a practical checklist for LDA implementation in accounting and finance research emphasizing transparency and robustness checks.

Keywords: textual analysis, topic modelling, risk disclosure, latent dirichlet allocation, annual reports, gpt

JEL Classification: C55, M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Gad, Mahmoud and Park, Gitae and Rawsthorne, Sam and Young, Steven, When Methods Matter: How Implementation Choices Shape Topic Discovery in Financial Text (February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5134615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5134615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
S Abraham , P J Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
D Angelov
Top2Vec: Distributed Representations of Topics
arXiv Posted: 2008
B Atil , A Chittams , L Fu , F Ture , L Xu , B Baldwin
LLM Stability: A detailed analysis with some surprises Posted: 2024
Acca
Reporting risk Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
RANK
439,059
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies