Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Redacted Identities in Shipment Records: Evidence from Forced Labor Scrutiny in Supply Chains

The Wharton School Research Paper

48 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2025 Last revised: 20 Feb 2025

Sandra G. Schafhäutle

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Gurpal S. Sran

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: August 01, 2024

Abstract

US Customs and Border Protection allows firms to request redaction of their own (and their suppliers') identifying information in transaction-level shipment records. We find that about 16% of shipment records from 2013 through 2023 have redacted identities, with significant variation across time, origin regions, and other shipment characteristics. Along with examining proprietary costs as a motive for firms to redact identities, we focus on an important but understudied force: supply chain scrutiny costs related to forced labor risks. Consistent with such costs, shipments from countries with forced labor vulnerabilities and weak government responses to forced labor are more likely to have redacted identities. We then exploit a series of events related to forced labor allegations in international cotton and apparel production that intensified supply chain scrutiny related to forced labor risks. Using a difference-in-difference-in-differences design, we find an increase in redactions for affected cotton and apparel shipments after these events. Overall, our evidence suggests that importers redact identities from shipment records in the presence of supply chain scrutiny costs introduced by public and regulatory attention to corporate social responsibility.

Keywords: disclosure, redactions, supply chains, forced labor

JEL Classification: M41, M48, F14, M14, J80, G38

Suggested Citation:

Schafhäutle, Sandra G. and Sran, Gurpal, Redacted Identities in Shipment Records: Evidence from Forced Labor Scrutiny in Supply Chains (August 01, 2024). The Wharton School Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5140247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5140247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Aspi
Uyghurs for sale. Australian Strategic Policy Institute, (Policy Brief Posted: 2020
D Bao , Y Kim , L N Su
Do Firms Redact Information from Material Contracts to Conceal Bad News?
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 5 , p. 29 - 57 Posted: 2022
D Bao , L A Myers , L N Su
Tax-Related Disclosure Costs: Evidence from Redactions in Material Contracts
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2023
D P Baron
Private Politics, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Integrated Strategy
Journal of Economics and Management Strategy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 45 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,075
RANK
143,711
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies