Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Place and Role of Information System in Exercising the Financial Control

8 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Florin Radu

University of Valahia Targoviste

Ciprian Giju

Valahia University of Targoviste

Tabirca Alina Iuliana

University of Valahia Targoviste

Date Written: May 05, 2016

Abstract

Considering the technological and economic changes over the years, we have found that we are currently witnessing an increase in the information system in the future. In fact, it is found that the information domain has known divergence over time, significantly in practice. Therefore, it is not surprising that the academic recommendations are rarely adopted by practitioners in response to this problem, so it is suggested in the future a turn towards the practice.

Keywords: information system, financial control, management, e-commerce JEL Classification: L86, M49

Suggested Citation:

Radu, Florin and Giju, Ciprian and Alina Iuliana, Tabirca, The Place and Role of Information System in Exercising the Financial Control (May 05, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5140660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5140660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
O Nicolescu , L Nicolescu
Managementul modern al organizaţiei [Modern management of the organization]
Editura Tribuna Economică Posted: 2001
V Stanciu
Proiectarea sistemelor informatice de gestiune [Designing management information systems
Editura Cison Posted: 2000
Ş Popa , C Ionescu
Audit în medii informatizate
Editura Expert Posted: 2005
G L Parsons , Fall
Information Technology: A New Competitive Weapon
Sloan Management Review , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 14 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
231
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies