Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social media as a setting for accounting research

65 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2025

Adam Booker

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting; University of Denver; University of Arkansas, Fayetteville

Asher Curtis

University of Washington; Department of Accounting

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Date Written: December 02, 2024

Abstract

We describe social media as a setting for accounting research. Social media provides a setting in which accounting researchers can observe how firms and stakeholders access and share information on public forums. We review the literature and provide a framework based on incentives and consequences for accessing and sharing financial news on social media. To aid future research we offer institutional background on several social media platforms along with guidance on using social media data for accounting research, which is accompanied by code in our online appendix. Finally, throughout the paper we provide avenues for future research using social media platforms as a setting for accounting research.

Keywords: Social Media, Social Investing, Information Sharing, Disclosure Processing Costs, Capital Markets. JEL Codes: M40

Suggested Citation:

Booker, Adam and Booker, Adam and Curtis, Asher and Ke, Bin, Social media as a setting for accounting research (December 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5146627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5146627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
D Abreu , M K Brunnermeier
Synchronization risk and delayed arbitrage
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , issue 2 , p. 341 - 360 Posted: 2002
E Akçay , D Hirshleifer
Social finance as cultural evolution, transmission bias, and market dynamics
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , volume 118 , issue 26 Posted: 2021
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is All That Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
E Bartov , L Faurel , P S Mohanram
Can Twitter Help Predict Firm-Level Earnings and Stock Returns?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 57 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,449
RANK
248,903
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies