Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From the Executive Suite to the Environment: How Does CEO Power Affect Climate Change Disclosures?

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money

62 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2025 Last revised: 5 Mar 2025

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Sabri Boubaker

Ecole de Management de Normandie

Hussein Daradkeh

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: February 21, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between CEO power and corporate climate change disclosure and the moderating role of internal and external monitoring in this relationship. Using a sample of 3,512 United States firm-year observations, we find that firms with more powerful CEOs disclose less climate change information. However, this negative relationship is mitigated in firms with higher institutional ownership, greater financial analyst coverage, and stronger internal governance. Our results remain robust across a series of tests designed to address both observable and unobservable selection biases, as well as omitted variable biases. Further analysis reveals that reduced firm-level transparency is an underlying channel through which CEO power diminishes climate change disclosures. Additionally, we document that climate change disclosure acts as an underlying mechanism linking CEO power to firm value. The findings of our study have important implications for regulators, policymakers, researchers, investors, analysts, and company management, especially in the context of increasing regulatory pressure on firms to enhance their climate change disclosures.

Keywords: CEO power, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Climate change disclosures, Institutional investors, Financial analysts, Governance, Firm value JEL classification: G34, M41

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Boubaker, Sabri and Daradkeh, Hussein and Shams, Syed, From the Executive Suite to the Environment: How Does CEO Power Affect Climate Change Disclosures? (February 21, 2025). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5147291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5147291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
M A Abernethy , Y F Kuang , B Qin
The influence of CEO power on compensation contract design
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1306 Posted: 2015
R Aggarwal , S Dow
Corporate governance and business strategies for climate change and environmental mitigation
The European Journal of Finance , volume 18 , issue 3-4 , p. 311 - 331 Posted: 2012
R Alqatamin , Z A Aribi , T Arun
The effect of CEOs' characteristics on forward-looking information
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 402 - 424 Posted: 2017
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
486
RANK
778,511
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies