Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leveraging AI to Decipher How Supply Contracts Map to Revenues

63 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2025

Guang Ma

Rutgers Business School at Newark and New Brunswick

Bin Li

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

This paper leverages Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) tools to examine the role of supply contracts in revenue recognition, an important yet unexplored area in the literature. Using GAI to analyze material supply contracts disclosed in SEC filings, we first provide an overview of their common structure and specific contents. We then investigate how individual contract provisions relate to revenue recognition along three dimensions: (i) the revenues expected to be recognized from the contract, (ii) ex-ante uncertainty regarding the revenue to be recognized, and (iii) managerial discretion in revenue reporting. Finally, we apply machine learning techniques to assess the predictive power of GAI-extracted contract information for reported revenues and revenue-related accounting issues. The results show that contract information outperforms traditional financial variables and firm characteristics in both predictive settings. Overall, our paper highlights the value of detailed information embedded in supply contracts and the advantages of using GAI in contract analysis.

Keywords: Supply contracts, Revenue recognition, Revenue prediction, Generative AI, ChatGPT

JEL Classification: L14, M41, C45, C53, C81, G17

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Guang and Li, Bin, Leveraging AI to Decipher How Supply Contracts Map to Revenues (November 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5148568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5148568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
Artificial intelligence and jobs: Evidence from online vacancies
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , issue S1 , p. 293 - S340 Posted: 2022
J Achiam , S Adler , S Agarwal , Ahmad , I Akkaya , F L Aleman , D Almeida , J Altenschmidt , S Altman , Anadkat , R Avila
GPT-4 technical report Posted: 2023
H Almeida , K W Hankins , R Williams
Risk management with supply contracts
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 12 , p. 4179 - 4215 Posted: 2017
J Altamuro , A L Beatty , J Weber
The effects of accelerated revenue recognition on earnings management and earnings informativeness: Evidence from SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
813
RANK
347,282
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies