Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value-based Economic measurements in Uzbekistan: in search of fundamental basis.  

199 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2025 Last revised: 29 Jun 2025

Andrey I. Artemenkov

Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT); Ariel University

Omonjon Ganiev

Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT)

Olga Medvedeva

The State University of Management - Department of Economic measurements

Date Written: November 27, 2024

Abstract

This textbook consolidates the presentation of the scope of research in Valuebased Measurements, covering Accounting Measurements, Investment and Financial Valuation, Professional Valuation and Environmental and Investment Project Evaluation. The similarities and differences in the methodology for each of these professional activities are highlighted, along with the latest research ongoing in these areas. In particular, the presentation of Professional Valuation methodology is reconstructed on the basis of the Transactional Asset Pricing Approach (TAPA), and asset pricing itself, as conducted in the discussed valuation practices, is considered at the nexus of fundamental values and liquidity effect concepts. These liquidity effects are generated by a number of procyclicality circuits also discussed in the textbook. The textbook is intended for professionals familiar with the methodology of asset pricing and valuation as used in their respective fields of Economic Measurements. It can also be helpful in the context of primary training programs for specialists in the various fields of value measurements (for example, in the final year of relevant university specializations related to investment analysis of securities and investment projects, appraisal activities and financial accounting).

Suggested Citation:

Artemenkov, Andrey I. and Ganiev, Omonjon and Medvedeva, Olga, Value-based Economic measurements in Uzbekistan: in search of fundamental basis.   (November 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5151538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5151538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
being valued and in relation to the benchmark used in the context of such valuation, thus, TAPA is a model applicable to the valuation of cyclical companies or businesses operating in cyclical. Key: 1-AC; 2-BC; 3-BD; 4-C;5-B;6-CD , volume 7
D Abdikarimova
Current state of valuation process in Uzbekistan
Guidelines for the Economic Analysis of Projects, Asian Development Bank , volume IX Posted: 2017
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 Posted: 1968-09
E I Altman
Corporate Financial Distress. A Complete Guide to Predicting , Avoiding, and Dealing with Bankruptcy Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
589
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies