Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of audit software on quality of audit in Kuwait: Insights from auditors

18 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Awwad Alnesafi

Al Yamamah University

Date Written: March 01, 2024

Abstract

This research tries to find a relationship between audit quality and audit software, impacted by the latter. In this study, multiple sentiments of audit professionals and finance executives on the relation of audit software and quality of audit in Kuwait are examined where, on the basis of agreed perspectives of professionals, it was found that audit software positively influences audit quality. This particular article tries to extend the previous works and emphasizes on the observation of audit professionals and their perspectives through a well-structured survey and semi-structured interviews. This study is to identify the distinctiveness of the audit industry in Kuwait comparing market size and available inadequate local auditors. The authors try to establish the relationship between audit quality and audit software considering the fact that acceptance of audits software will definitely give a more effective and robust audit process to cover market needs. The paper also considers the auditors' training and experience as a moderating factor for the adoption and usage of audit software in auditing practices in Kuwait, resulting in useful insights on the effects of the adoption and use of auditing software in enhancing the quality of audit reports as well as suggesting resources for the use of technological developments in auditing practices. Thus, the study contributes to the extant literature on the dynamics for the adoption and usage of computerized systems in auditing practices to improve the quality of audit reports.

Suggested Citation:

Alnesafi, Awwad, The impact of audit software on quality of audit in Kuwait: Insights from auditors (March 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5164504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5164504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
E Abad-Segura , M.-D González-Zamar
Research analysis on emerging technologies in corporate accounting
Mathematics , volume 8 , issue 9 Posted: 2020
M Abu Afifa , Y Marei , I Saleh , O H Othman , S G Yaseen
Big Data Analytics and Audit Quality: Evidence from Canada
Digital Economy, Business Analytics, and Big Data Analytics Applications , volume 1010 , p. 269 - 283 Posted: 2022
H Albarrak , E M Alotaibi , A Alnesafi
Measuring cloud information systems' effect on financial information quality using the information system success model: Evidence from Saudi Arabia
Uncertain Supply Chain Management , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 2825 - 2838 Posted: 2024
E M Alotaibi
A Conceptual Model of Continuous Government Auditing Using Blockchain-Based Smart Contracts
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 17 , issue 11 , p. 1 - 1 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
383
RANK
765,623
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies