Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using AI to Identify Exogenous Shocks and Conduct Archival Accounting Research

43 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2025 Last revised: 2 May 2025

Will Ciconte

School of Business, University of Kansas; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy; University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Andrea Rozario

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: May 02, 2025

Abstract

In this paper, we explore the capabilities and risks of AI usage in accounting research. We focus on mining U.S. securities regulations as an economic shock, testing the causal effect of these exogenous shocks on U.S. firms’ voluntary disclosure behavior and writing a complete academic paper conditional upon finding statistically significant results. Overall, AI does a great job in this research experiment. AI-generated papers may not be ready to be submitted to a top accounting journal, but they constitute an excellent head start for accounting researchers and save them valuable time in identifying exogenous shocks which significantly affect an outcome of interest. When we repeat the same experiment to explore the causal effect of non-U.S. securities regulations on U.S. firms’ voluntary disclosure practices, AI writes many professional looking papers with spurious results and unsubstantiated economic arguments highlighting the potential dangers of AI for accounting scholarship. 

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, Exogenous shock, Accounting research

JEL Classification: K20, O31

Suggested Citation:

Ciconte, Will and Rozario, Andrea and Urcan, Oktay, Using AI to Identify Exogenous Shocks and Conduct Archival Accounting Research (May 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5187205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5187205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Adam , A Cui , E Tian , E Thomas , J Schnell , J Tian , A Dronavalli , D Lee
GPTZero: Scalable and Explainable Detection of LLM-Generated Texts Posted: 2024
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 Posted: 2022
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , L , Qianqian
Generative AI in financial reporting Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,765
RANK
151,017
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies