Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Material Accounting Misstatements on Preaudit Dataset

44 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2025

Tina Vuko

University of Split - Business and Tourism

Slavko Sodan

University of Split - Faculty of Economics

Zeljana Aljinovic Barac

University of Split - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: March 26, 2025

Abstract

This study applies a regularization-based algorithm to identify patterns in preaudit data that signal the risk of material misstatements before the completion of audits. Utilizing a unique dataset of Croatianlisted companies, which are required to publish both preaudit and audited annual financial statements, the analysis extends beyond widely studied predictors of income-related misreporting to encompass predictors of non-income-related misreporting. Furthermore, our data allows us to tackle challenges in comparable fraud and restatement-based prediction studies more effectively, such as selection bias and heavily imbalanced datasets. Finally, our analysis provides a more nuanced understanding of the accepted vs. waived material audit adjustment predictors using accounting-related modified audit opinions. The results indicate that the key predictors of material earnings misstatements and cash flow misstatements differ. The most significant earnings misstatement predictors include absolute total accruals, company size, small profits, receivables turnover, and sales. However, accounts payable turnover emerges as the strongest predictor of material adjustments across operating, investing, and financing cash flows. Finally, a distinct set of predictors is associated with the risk of receiving a modified audit opinion, including soft assets, going concern uncertainty, negative financial performance, leverage, intangible assets, and cash flow from investing activities.

Keywords: preaudit data, audit adjustments, audit opinion, prediction

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Vuko, Tina and Sodan, Slavko and Aljinovic Barac, Zeljana, Predicting Material Accounting Misstatements on Preaudit Dataset (March 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5196948 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5196948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Aljinovic Barac , Z Vuko , T Šodan , S
What can auditors tell us about accounting manipulations?
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 788 - 809 Posted: 2017
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
M D Beneish
The detection of earnings manipulation
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 24 - 36 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
823
RANK
833,650
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies