Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Voluntary Disclosure of Non-GAAP Revenue Guidance

55 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2025 Last revised: 31 Jul 2025

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Lynn Davis

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Edgar Rodriguez-Vazquez

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Xiaoxi Wu

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 30, 2025

Abstract

We investigate a disclosure trend that has captured the attention of the FASB and the SEC—forward-looking non-GAAP revenue guidance. We find that the frequency of non-GAAP revenue guidance has increased dramatically from 1.5 percent in 2005 to 22.7 percent in 2021, peaking at 30.2 percent in 2015, and that non-GAAP revenue guidance adjustments vary across firms. Our evidence suggests that non-GAAP revenue guidance is associated with greater accuracy in analysts’ revenue and earnings forecasts. We find, however, that these benefits vary across different non-GAAP revenue adjustments. Specifically, we find a positive association between organic revenue growth guidance—the most frequently disclosed non-GAAP revenue guidance metric—and analysts’ forecast optimism. Overall, we provide the first evidence on the prevalence and consequences of non-GAAP revenue guidance, which can be informative to the FASB and the SEC as they continue to debate the implications of non-GAAP reporting for financial statement users.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, Management guidance, Non-GAAP revenues, Organic growth, Constant-currency, Core Revenues

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Theodore E. and Davis, Lynn and Rodriguez-Vazquez, Edgar and Wu, Xiaoxi, The Voluntary Disclosure of Non-GAAP Revenue Guidance (July 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5197943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5197943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
O K Hope , C Li , M S Ma , X Su
Is silence golden sometimes? Management guidance withdrawals during the COVID-19 pandemic
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 2319 - 2360 Posted: 2023
C Hsu , R Wang
Bundled earnings guidance and analysts' forecast revisions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 3146 - 3181 Posted: 2021
K Kolev , C A Marquardt , S E Mcvay
SEC scrutiny and the evolution of non-GAAP reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 157 - 184 Posted: 2008
K Kolev , E Rodriguez-Vazquez , X Wu
Can Managers Influence the Market's Composition of Street Earnings Absent Non-GAAP Earnings Guidance Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,038
RANK
241,758
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies