Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Moves Stock Prices Around Information Releases?

57 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2025 Last revised: 6 Jul 2025

Nathan T. Marshall

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Andrew Stephan

University of Colorado at Boulder Leeds School of Business

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Even though firm-specific information releases account for the majority of stock-return variance, little is known about what moves prices within the information release days themselves. Employing an intraday return variance decomposition model, we document a striking pattern of what moves prices around earnings and merger announcements. Although these windows contain significant public information, the role of private information increases most markedly during regular trading hours, diminishing the influence of market information and noise. Importantly, private information trading increases both in anticipation of and in response to expected releases such as earnings announcements. In contrast, unexpected releases, such as merger announcements, only trigger private information trading after the news is revealed. Moreover, both forms of private information trading intensify when processing costs are lower. Finally, we show that private information trading around earnings announcements is associated with faster price discovery and reduced synchronicity with the broader market, suggesting enhanced market efficiency.

Keywords: Information releases, Private information trading, Stock return variance, Market efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Marshall, Nathan T. and Stephan, Andrew, What Moves Stock Prices Around Information Releases? (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5199584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5199584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
K R Ahern
Do proxies for informed trading measure informed trading? Evidence from illegal insider trades
The Review of Asset Pricing Studies , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 397 - 440 Posted: 2020
M Amador , P O Weill
Learning from prices: Public communication and welfare
Journal of Political Economy , volume 118 , issue 5 , p. 866 - 907 Posted: 2010
M Amador , P O Weill
Learning from private and public observations of othersʼ actions
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 147 , issue 3 , p. 910 - 940 Posted: 2012
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
746
RANK
409,319
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies