Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comment on CRSP CIZ Monthly Return

19 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2025 Last revised: 10 Apr 2025

Qingyi (Freda) Song Drechsler

University of Pennsylvania - Wharton Research Data Services

Date Written: April 03, 2025

Abstract

CRSP introduced the new CIZ format data to replace the legacy SIZ format. Among other changes, monthly returns are now calculated by compounding daily returns over the month rather than using the change in month-end prices. This change leads to two scenarios in which monthly returns can differ: (1) if there are days in which there is no price data (trading gaps) and the SIZ approach can be affected by stale prices, and (2) when there are distributions (i.e., cash dividends). When there are distributions, the new CIZ approach assumes they are reinvested immediately, as of the ex-dividend date, so that they earn the returns over the remaining days of the month. In contrast, the old SIZ approach assumed they are only reinvested as of the end of the month. I compare the difference in stocks’ calculated monthly returns between the two formats. I find that the impact of the change in methodology is very small, with a median (mean) absolute difference in stocks’ monthly returns equaling 0bps (3bps).

Keywords: CRSP, CIZ Data, Monthly Return

Suggested Citation:

Drechsler, Qingyi (Freda) Song, Comment on CRSP CIZ Monthly Return (April 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5203740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5203740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
References CRSP Cross Reference Guide, Stock Indexes Flat File Format 1.0 (SIZ) to 2.0 (CIZ), CRSP. CRSP US Stock Indexes Databases, Flat File Format 2.0, CRSP. Executive Summary of Differences, CRSP US Stocks and Indexes Flat File 1.0 (SIZ) to
Eugene F Fama , Kenneth R French
Common Risk Factors in Stocks and Bonds
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 33 , p. 3 - 56 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,192
RANK
420,384
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies