Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
This is not an Experiment: Using Vignettes in Qualitative Accounting Research

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

Accounting, Auditing and Accountability., 38(1), 418–440. DOI: 10.1108/AAAJ-10-2023-6704

Posted: 8 Apr 2025

Leona Wiegmann

Monash Business School

Annemarie Conrath‐Hargreaves

Monash University

Zhengqi GUO

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Matthew Hall

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Ralph Kober

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Richard Pucci

Monash University

Paul Thambar

Monash Business School

Tirukumar Thiagarajah

Monash University

Date Written: April 05, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-The use of interviews for data collection is prevalent in qualitative accounting research. This paper examines vignettessketches of hypothetical scenariosas a promising complementary way to conduct interviews in qualitative accounting research. 

Design/methodology/approach-The paper is based on our experiences designing and using vignettes in five separate qualitative accounting studies, which collectively involve over 200 interviews with various participants. It discusses the opportunities the use of vignettes in interviews offers to qualitative accounting research, as well as the challenges associated with designing and using vignettes. The paper also reflects on fellow researchers' varied reactions during seminars, workshops, and the journal review process. 

Findings-Vignettes emerge as a productive and engaging complementary way for accounting researchers to obtain additional insights and perspectives not usually accessible in semi-structured interviews. The paper also provides practical insights into developing, using and publishing qualitative accounting studies using vignettes, contributing an additional behind-the-scenes view of using qualitative research methods. 

Originality/value-The aim of this paper is to increase awareness of vignettes as a complement to the standard qualitative accounting interview. It provides guidance on how vignettes might be used productively for studying rare, new, emerging, complex, or multi-period real-world accounting phenomena. It also discusses how vignettes can promote transparency, honesty, and a greater level of detail in participants' responses, as well as facilitate the involvement of lay people in accounting studies.

The full paper is available at https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-10-2023-6704

Keywords: Accounting research, Data collection, Interviews, Method, Qualitative, Vignette

Suggested Citation:

Wiegmann, Leona and Conrath‐Hargreaves, Annemarie and GUO, Zhengqi and Hall, Matthew and Kober, Ralph and Pucci, Richard and Thambar, Paul j and Thiagarajah, Tirukumar, This is not an Experiment: Using Vignettes in Qualitative Accounting Research (April 05, 2024). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Accounting, Auditing and Accountability., 38(1), 418–440. DOI: 10.1108/AAAJ-10-2023-6704, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5206866
 Not Available for Download
73 References
M Alvesson
Beyond neopositivists, romantics, and localists: a reflexive approach to interviews in organizational research
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 33 Posted: 2003
L Amankwaa
Creating protocols for trustworthiness in qualitative research
Journal of Cultural Diversity , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 121 - 127 Posted: 2016
V N Anney
Ensuring the quality of the findings of qualitative research: looking at trustworthiness criteria
Journal of Emerging Trends in Educational Research and Policy Studies , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 272 - 281 Posted: 2014
W Aujla
Using a vignette in qualitative research to explore police perspectives of a sensitive topic: 'honor'-based crimes and forced marriages
International Journal of Qualitative Methods , volume 19 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
284
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies