Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of Accounting Distortions and Growth for Accruals and Profitability

53 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2004

Scott A. Richardson

London Business School; Acadian Asset Management

Richard G. Sloan

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Mark T. Soliman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

A. Irem Tuna

London Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2004

Abstract

Following Sloan (1996), numerous studies show that the accrual component of earnings is less persistent than the cash flow component of earnings. Disagreement exists, however, as to the explanation for this result. Xie (2001) attributes the result to managerial discretion. Fairfield et al. (2003a) argue that it is a special case of a more general growth anomaly that is attributable to the widespread use of conservative accounting methods and/or diminishing marginal returns to new investment. Finally, Dechow and Dichev (2002) and Richardson et al. (2004) argue that it is attributable to transitory accrual estimation error. In this paper, we provide theory and evidence to discriminate between these alternative explanations. Our analysis suggests that transitory accrual estimation error provides the most consistent explanation for the lower persistence of the accrual component of earnings. Further, our results suggest the accrual estimation error is at least partially attributable to managerial discretion.

Keywords: Accruals, earnings management, conservative accounting, aggressive accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44

Suggested Citation:

Richardson, Scott Anthony and Sloan, Richard G. and Soliman, Mark T. and Tuna, Ayse Irem, The Implications of Accounting Distortions and Growth for Accruals and Profitability (March 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=521043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.521043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
J Barton , P Simko
The Balance Sheet as an Earnings Management Constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Bradshaw , S Richardson , R Sloan
Do Analysts and Auditors Understand Information in Accruals?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 45 - 74 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K Chan , L Chan , N Jegadeesh , J Lakonishok
Earnings Quality and Stock Returns. Working paper Posted: 2001
Crossref
P Dechow , I Dichev
The Quality of Accruals and Earnings: The Role of Accrual Estimation Errors. The Accounting Review, 77 Supplement , p. 35 - 59 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,093
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,675
RANK
9,195
18 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices

By Scott A. Richardson, Richard G. Sloan, ...

Accrued Earnings and Growth: Implications for Earnings Persistence and Market Mispricing

By Patricia M. Fairfield, Scott Whisenant, ...

Insider Trading, Earnings Quality, and Accrual Mispricing

By Mark E. Vargus and Messod D. Beneish

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies