Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Effect Size Meets Significance: Resolving Two Paradoxes ... in Empirical Financial Economics

36 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Robert W. Faff

Corvinus University Budapest; University of Queensland; Bond University

Date Written: April 18, 2025

Abstract

This paper unpacks two pervasive-but often conflated-paradoxes in modern quantitative research. Paradox #1 holds that statistically significant results may be economically trivial; Paradox #2 reminds us that valuable research might fail to reach conventional significance thresholds-or it might uncover that no effect exists at all. Using a financial economics lens, we integrate guidance on: (i) translating coefficients into decision relevant units, (ii) evaluating and communicating economically meaningful nulls, and (iii) distinguishing between 'absence of evidence' and 'evidence of absence'. We catalogue ten proven methods for demonstrating economic significance, six complementary lenses for interrogating null or weak findings, and illustrate each with mini cases. A workflow checklist and policy implications close the discussion. This preliminary version was heavily developed in collaboration with ChatGPT. In the spirit of transparency and responsible science, readers are invited to contribute to a crowd-sourced fact-checking effort to help refine and strengthen the work. Indeed, this "ground zero" version of the paper intentionally makes no attempt to "fact check" any of the "literaturelinked claims" ... that are highlighted herein in yellow ... made in the inaugural version of this AI-assisted paper. As such, this 1.0 version stands as a baseline exhibit.

Keywords: effect size, economic significance, statistical significance, translation matters, null results, financial economics, crowd-sourced fact checking JEL classifications: C12, C58, G14, G18, G38

Suggested Citation:

Faff, Robert W., When Effect Size Meets Significance: Resolving Two Paradoxes ... in Empirical Financial Economics (April 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5221965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5221965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
References
V Acharya , R Engle , M Richardson
Capital shortfall: A new approach to ranking and regulating systemic risks
American Economic Review , volume 102 , issue 3 , p. 59 - 64 Posted: 2012
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
J B Berk , J H Van Binsbergen
Measuring skill in the mutual fund industry
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 118 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
309
RANK
826,408
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies