Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Turnover in Family Firms: The Corporate Transparency Perspective 

China Accounting and Finance Review; Doi: 10.1108/CAFR-12-2022-0128

48 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 19 Apr 2025

Cheng Hsun Lee

National Cheng Kung University

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Date Written: March 04, 2025

Abstract

Purpose-We investigate the relationship between family firms and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) turnover and the moderating role of corporate transparency in this association, using firms listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TSE). 

Design/methodology/approach-Using a sample of 15,726 firm-year observations from 2002-2019, the study employs ordinary least squares (OLS) regression techniques to estimate the research models. Several methods are applied to address endogeneity issues in our findings. Additionally, the role of tax avoidance is analyzed as an underlying mechanism in the association between corporate transparency in family firms and CEO turnover. 
Findings-We find a negative association between family firms and CEO turnover; however, this effect is weakened by corporate transparency. Consistent with the transparency hypothesis, corporate transparency mitigates the Type II agency problem. We also find that tax avoidance serves as an underlying mechanism in the association between corporate transparency in family firms and CEO turnover. Originality-Our results contribute to a better understanding of the moderating role of corporate transparency in mitigating the Type II agency problem, with implications for family firm owners and shareholders.

Keywords: CEO turnover, Family firms, Corporate transparency, Type II agency problem, Taiwan

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Cheng Hsun and Bose, Sudipta, CEO Turnover in Family Firms: The Corporate Transparency Perspective  (March 04, 2025). China Accounting and Finance Review; Doi: 10.1108/CAFR-12-2022-0128, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5222962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5222962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
252
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies