Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critical Analysis of the Impact of Blockchain Technology and Artificial Intelligence Integration on Accounting Information System 

16 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Nehemiah Emmanuel

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 18, 2025

Abstract

The integration of Blockchain technology and Artificial Intelligence (AI) into Accounting Information Systems (AIS) is reshaping financial reporting, auditing, and decision-making. AI, through machine learning and deep learning techniques, enables automation, predictive analytics, and enhanced decision-making, while Blockchain ensures security, transparency, and immutability in financial transactions. These technologies drive digital transformation in financial institutions by improving operational efficiency and fraud detection in financial systems. However, challenges such as regulatory compliance, data privacy, scalability, and implementation costs persist. This study critically examines the impact of Blockchain technology and AI on AIS, analyzing their benefits, challenges, and future implications for accounting professionals and financial institutions. The findings suggest that while Blockchain technology and AI enhance AIS efficiency and security, successful adoption requires addressing technological, ethical, and regulatory concerns.

Keywords: Blockchain Technology, Artificial intelligence, AIS

Declaration of Interest

NA

Funder Statement

The research was self funded

Suggested Citation:

Emmanuel, Nehemiah, Critical Analysis of the Impact of Blockchain Technology and Artificial Intelligence Integration on Accounting Information System  (April 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5222051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5222051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D Bhumichai , C Smiliotopoulos , R Benton , G Kambourakis , D Damopoulos
The convergence of artificial intelligence and blockchain: The state of play and the road ahead
Information , volume 15 , issue 5 Posted: 2024
M Castro , B Liskov
Practical Byzantine fault tolerance
Proceedings of the Third Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation , p. 173 - 186 Posted: 1999
Fitriawijaya , T Jeng
Integrating multimodal generative AI and blockchain for enhancing generative design in the early phase of architectural design process
Buildings , volume 14 , issue 8 Posted: 2024
H Han
Accounting and auditing with blockchain technology and artificial intelligence: A literature review
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
852
RANK
622,742
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies