Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investment Opportunities Influence Private Firms' Performance? International Evidence from Developing Countries

Journal of Accounting Literature. https://doi.org/10.1108/JAL-08-2023-0149

49 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 19 Apr 2025

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Kumar Biswas

University of Wollongong

Muhammad Jahangir Ali

La Trobe University, Department of Accounting, Data Analytics, Economics and Finance

Amitav Saha

School of Business, The University of Notre Dame Australia

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

Purpose-This study examines the association between investment opportunities and private firms' performance. While the existing literature predominantly focuses on public firms, mainly from advanced economies, our study delves into private firms in developing countries worldwide. Furthermore, we explore the moderating effects of both female ownership and concentrated ownership, aiming to uncover the role of investment opportunities on firm performance in the relatively understudied context of developing countries and private firms.

Design/methodology/approach-We use 36,185 observations from firms in 114 countries across the world, sourced from the World Bank Enterprise Surveys (WBES) from 2006-2018. We estimate the regression models using Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression method. We also employ an advanced supervised machine learning approach to provide additional insights into the role of investment opportunities in predicting private firms' performance. 
Findings-We find a positive association between private firms' investment opportunities and their performance. Furthermore, our study demonstrates that female ownership positively while concentrated ownership negatively moderates this association. 
Originality-Our study's findings provide critical insights for the literature investigating the dynamics of the relationship with, and the impact of, investment opportunities on private firms' performance. The roles of female ownership and concentrated ownership in moderating this relationship have important policy implications for enhancing private firms' performance.

Keywords: Investment opportunities, Private firms' performance, Female ownership, Concentrated ownership, Private firms, Machine learning

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Biswas, Kumar and Ali, Muhammad Jahangir and Saha, Amitav, Do Investment Opportunities Influence Private Firms' Performance? International Evidence from Developing Countries (April 01, 2025). Journal of Accounting Literature. https://doi.org/10.1108/JAL-08-2023-0149, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5222952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5222952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
289
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies