Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Generative AI Use by Capital Market Information Intermediaries: Evidence from Seeking Alpha

70 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 16 Sep 2025

Mark T Bradshaw

Boston College

Chenyang Ma

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Yuan Zou

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: September 16, 2025

Abstract

We study the use of generative AI for firm-specific financial analysis on the Seeking Alpha platform. After the initial launch of ChatGPT in November 2022, the share of AI-generated articles rose sharply to 13.4% of all articles, then declined in late 2023 after Seeking Alpha equated the use of AI to plagiarism and announced a prohibition on its use. We organize our study around two questions: (i) does AI use increase author productivity? (ii) Does AI use have capital market consequences and ultimately affect the informational landscape? We find that authors who adopt AI become more productive, publishing more articles and covering more new firms than non-adopters. Findings on AI article informativeness are more nuanced. On average, AI articles are less informative than human-written articles, eliciting smaller trading volume and abnormal return responses. However, AI use leads to increased firm coverage, and in turn to improved liquidity and faster price discovery. Our findings suggest that, while AI-generated articles are currently perceived as less informative than human-written articles, their comparatively low cost enables increased firm coverage and thereby improves the overall informational landscape.

Keywords: Generative AI, Seeking Alpha, equity research, large language models, GPT

JEL Classification: D83, G14, M41, O33

Suggested Citation:

Bradshaw, Mark T and Ma, Chenyang and Yost, Benjamin and Zou, Yuan, Generative AI Use by Capital Market Information Intermediaries: Evidence from Seeking Alpha (September 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5226562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5226562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Abnormal returns to a fundamental analysis strategy
The Accounting Review , p. 19 - 45 Posted: 1998
D Acemoglu
The simple macroeconomics of AI
Economic Policy , volume 40 , issue 121 , p. 13 - 58 Posted: 2025
V Agarwal , R Taffler
Comparing the performance of market-based and accountingbased bankruptcy prediction models
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 1541 - 1551 Posted: 2008
A Akram
An empirical study of AI generated text detection tools Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
577
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,412
RANK
111,685
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies