Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Effectiveness of Internal Controls in the Payroll Process in Construction Companies

12 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Christian Donkor

University of Education, Winneba

Date Written: December 25, 2024

Abstract

This study aimed to explore how Ghanaian construction firms manage payroll, scrutinize existing internal controls, and assess their effectiveness. This inquiry is critical due to the significant and growing role of labour costs, and the need to ensure company growth aligns with its intended objectives. The study employed a descriptive survey research design. Data were collected using questionnaires that were disseminated among construction workers in Ghana. These participants were selected via purposive and convenience sampling techniques. The collected data was then analysed using SPSS version 23. The analysis revealed several key insights. Firstly, it was observed that proper payroll practices were generally in place among the construction companies surveyed. Secondly, the study found that these companies were implementing effective internal control practices. Lastly, the study found a positive correlation between the effectiveness of internal controls and the payroll process in Ghanaian construction companies. The findings of the study underline the crucial role of internal controls in the payroll process within construction companies. Given their proven effectiveness in the surveyed firms, the study recommends that these controls should be more widely adopted. Policymakers should consider implementing regulations to encourage construction companies to integrate internal controls into their payroll processes. This not only ensures correct payroll practices but also boosts the overall growth and development of the organization.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Construction Companies, Developing Economy, Payrol

Suggested Citation:

Donkor, Christian, Analysis of the Effectiveness of Internal Controls in the Payroll Process in Construction Companies (December 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5228916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5228916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
483
RANK
692,196
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies