Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Brexit and European Corporate Bond Markets

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 190

77 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2025

Benedikt Franke

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Urska Kosi

Paderborn University; University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Pia Stoczek

Paderborn University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 21, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the impact of Brexit on the corporate bond market by analyzing a comprehensive database covering corporate bond listings on European and UK trading venues. We find a significant shift in bond market activity, evidenced by a 49% increase in the number of bond listings in the EEA30 countries relative to the UK market after Brexit. Country-level analyses reveal a staggered effect on market activity, with predominantly international issuers adjusting their bond listings between the initially scheduled Brexit date and the final withdrawal date. At the issuer level, our findings indicate that the relative attractiveness of the EEA30 market has increased post-Brexit. Overall, these results suggest that the European capital market has successfully adapted to the loss of its largest financial center and exhibits a rising corporate bond market activity.

Keywords: Corporate bonds, Brexit, European capital market, European Bond Market Database

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G20

Suggested Citation:

Franke, Benedikt and Kosi, Urska and Stoczek, Pia, Brexit and European Corporate Bond Markets (April 21, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 190, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5230141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5230141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
T Berg , A Saunders , L Schäfer , S Steffen
Brexit and the contraction of syndicated lending
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 141 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 82 Posted: 2021
T Berg , A Saunders , S Steffen
Trends in corporate borrowing
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 321 - 340 Posted: 2021
M Bertrand , E Duflo , S Mullainathan
How much should we trust differences-indifferences estimates?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 275 Posted: 2004
N Bloom , P Bunn , S Chen , P Mizen , P Smietanka , G Thwaites
The impact of Brexit on UK firms. Working Paper. Advance online publication Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
996
RANK
229,142
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies