Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Organizing Framework for Causes of Auditing Deficiencies Around the Globe

26 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Christine J. Nolder

Suffolk University

Daniel Sunderland

Northeastern University (USA)

Abstract

Using both a deductive and inductive approach, we develop a hierarchical taxonomy for classifying the underlying causes of auditing deficiencies around the world. Root cause analysis researchers in quality management recommend establishing three categories of causes (i.e., proximal, distal, and root). Using the Heuristic-Systematic Model, we describe the causal relationships among the causes. Data obtained from publicly available audit regulator reports from around the world demonstrates the usefulness of our taxonomy in identifying patterns of audit deficiency causes (e.g., commonly purported causes) both within and across countries. The framework is intended to be comprehensive and useful to practitioners, regulators, and academics as it establishes a common vocabulary for future investigations into the root causes of auditing deficiencies and potential remediation strategies that offer the most promise for reducing the number and severity of future auditing deficiencies.

Keywords: Root Causes, Auditing Deficiencies, Audit Quality, Remediation of Auditing Deficiencies

Suggested Citation:

Nolder, Christine J. and Sunderland, Daniel, An Organizing Framework for Causes of Auditing Deficiencies Around the Globe. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5234311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5234311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) , volume 9 Posted: 2015
S Aghazadeh , K Hoang , C J Nolder
Auditors' Work Attitudes: Translating Auditor JDM Research Findings to Inform Audit Firms
Strategies. Accounting Horizons , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2024
ANNUAL REPORT on the supervision of the audit quality assurance system for the period
AICPA advocacy Posted: 2020
B Andersen , T Fagerhaug
Root cause analysis: simplified tools and techniques Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
409
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies