Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Liquidity And Solvency of Selected Public Sector Banks in India

10 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

Nithyakalyani Nithi

NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion

P. Parimaladevi

Vellalar College for Women

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

Liquidity and solvency is the lifebelt of every business. In Banking business' liquidity and solvency is prepare for conflict during the economic crisis. Banking Sector-liquidity and solvency is the epicenter in economic crisis. Globally, the liquidity and solvency played a vital role in managing liquidity and solvency issues of commercial banks. This research paper explores the concepts, analysis of liquidity and solvency the selected public sector banks in India. Furthermore, this paper focuses on the liquidity aspects of the Banks towards analyzing whether the ownership has any influence on the liquidity and solvency aspects of the banking structure. Besides, it looks into the unpredictability of RBI's policies on liquidity like Cash Reserve Ratio, Statutory Liquidity Ratio etc

Keywords: Liquidity, Solvancy, Banks, Financial Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Nithyakalyani C, Dr and Parimaladevi, P., Liquidity And Solvency of Selected Public Sector Banks in India (November 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5240669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5240669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
331
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies