Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact Of Liquidity Ratios On Profitability: With Special Reference to Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka

Harvard Business School BGIE Unit Working Paper

24 Pages Posted: 3 May 2025

H.M.M.K.Mayantha Herath

University of Peradeniya, Peradeniya, Sri Lanka

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 12, 2024

Abstract

The Ultimate goal of the companies is to enhance the wealth of the shareholders. For that purpose the liquidity and profitability plays the vital and crucial role. Especially the liquidity and its management are caused to great extent of the growth and profitability of a firm. The liquidity management becomes most important one as the inadequate liquidity may injurious to the smooth operations of the firm as well as the excess liquidity can be disturbed to achieve the greater profits. In this way, the present study is aimed to investigate the relationship between liquidity and profitability. The analysis is based on 15 manufacturing companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange over a period of past five years from 2019 to 2024. Correlation and regression analysis as well as the descriptive statistics were applied in the analysis and findings suggest that there is a significant relationship exists between liquidity and profitability while Quick ratio has not significant relationship with the ROE among the listed manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka. However there has a low degree of influence in liquidity on the profitability of manufacturing companies.

Keywords: Liquidity, Profitability, Manufacturing sector, Sri Lanka

Suggested Citation:

Herath, H.M.M.K.Mayantha, Impact Of Liquidity Ratios On Profitability: With Special Reference to Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka (November 12, 2024). Harvard Business School BGIE Unit Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5240002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5240002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
A Ajanthan
A nexus between Liquidity and Profitability
Journal of Business and Managementement Posted: 2013
J Aloy Niresh
Tradeoff Between Liquidity and Profitability
Journal of International Referred Research Posted: 2012
Ben-Caleb , Eg Bide , Olubukuola , Uwuigbe , Uwuigbe , Uwalomwa
Liquidity Management and Profitability of Manufacturing Companies in Nigeria
Journal of Business and Mangement Posted: 2013
V L Curtis , Samuel-Antwi , Eric-Kofi
The Realtionship Between Liquidity and Profitability of Listed Banks in Ghana
Journal of Business and Social Science Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
559
RANK
353,927
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Business, Government & the International Economy Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies