Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysing Bankruptcy Models in Corporate Restructuring: A Study of Financial Stability

21 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

Sayan Rano

SVKM’s NMIMS

Date Written: May 03, 2025

Abstract

"Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or present are certain to miss the future." — John F. Kennedy1
In the increasingly dynamic business world of today, driven by technological disruption, changing consumer behavior, and competitive forces, corporate restructuring has emerged as a key strategy for organizational revival and expansion (Porter, 1996). Market failures, operational inefficiencies, and increasing debt have been the time-tested drivers of firms toward financial distress or bankruptcy. As a response, mergers, acquisitions, and realignments of the enterprise structure exist as strategic mechanisms to reestablish competitiveness and financial vitality.
This research analyzes five large corporate restructuring cases of 12 Indian companies from industries like IT, pharma, media, infrastructure, and energy. Analyzing the financial positions of acquirer and target companies before and after restructuring using four well-known bankruptcy forecasting models which are Altman Z-Score, Grover, Springate, and Zmijewski, the model-based analysis accounts for different levels of recovery, pointing to successful turnarounds as well as persistent financial weaknesses. The results highlight strategic planning and model-based evaluation's role in guaranteeing sustainable post-restructuring performances.

Keywords: Corporate, Restructuring, Bankruptcy, Altman Z-score, Grover’s Model, Springate Model, Zmijewski Model, Financial Distress, Competitive Advantage

Suggested Citation:

Rano, Sayan, Analysing Bankruptcy Models in Corporate Restructuring: A Study of Financial Stability (May 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5240474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5240474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
D H Ajabani
Pre & post merger & acquisitions (M&A) performance of selected companies Posted: 2023
O K Akinsola , F Hamzah
Legal mechanisms for corporate restructuring: Understanding the legal landscape of mergers, acquisitions, and bankruptcy proceedings Posted: 2025
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E I Altman , E Hotchkiss
Corporate Financial Distress and Bankruptcy: Predict and Avoid Bankruptcy, Analyze and Invest in Distressed Debt Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Financial Crises eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies