Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Financial Analysis Of Air Asia Aviation Industry And Spicejet Aviation Industry

International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR), Volume 10, Issue 1, Pp.330-335, March 2023

6 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Sejalben Makwana

The CVM University

Date Written: March 02, 2023

Abstract

Air Asia aviation industry is a low-cost carrier market with the world's second largest population. This Air Asia brand totally purchased by the Tata Group. Air Asia India airline is having 5.9 percent of market shares in the year of 2021. In current scenario, Air Asia India operates 28 aircraft across 17 destinations in all over country. Royal Airways promoted SpiceJet aviation industry which was earlier known as Modiluft. And this aviation industry's main motto is to deliver at very lowest fares with the high consumer value and to price sensitive consumers. SpiceJet airline company's market share is 13% in the international market. The current research study analyses the profitability ratios of Air Asia airline company and SpiceJet airline company for the five years financial data. In this study the main focus is to make comparison between Air Asia Airline and SpiceJet Airline company in India.

Keywords: Aviation Industry, Financial Analysis and Profitability Ratio Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Makwana, Sejalben, A Comparative Financial Analysis Of Air Asia Aviation Industry And Spicejet Aviation Industry (March 02, 2023). International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR), Volume 10, Issue 1, Pp.330-335, March 2023

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Neelam Dhanda , & Mamta Sharma
A Study on Analysis of Operating Efficiency of Air India and IndiGo Airlines Posted: 2018-05
Amit Kumar Dr , Singh
Is Low Cost Strategy in Airlines Sustainable? -A Comparative Financial Ratio Analysis of Low Cot Airline Companies in India Posted: 2018-10
Eron Savio , Quadros Dr , Mr
Performance Evaluation of selected International and Indian Airlines
IJCRT Journal , volume 6 , issue 1 Posted: 2018-02
Annual Reports of Air Asia Airline Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
437
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies