Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Weaknesses and Audit Partners’ Reputation Concerns in the U.S

38 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Henry Jarva

Hanken School of Economics

Emma-Riikka Myllymäki

Audencia Business School

Ali Nickpour

Aalto University School of Business

Abstract

This study examines whether the disclosure of audit engagement partner identities under PCAOB Rule 3211 has influenced auditors’ reporting decisions on internal control material weaknesses (ICMWs), audit effort, and auditor turnover. Building on prior literature, we analyze both companies with disclosed ICMWs and those with likely unreported weaknesses identified through subsequent financial restatements. We find that, in the post-Rule 3211 period, auditors are significantly more likely to issue adverse internal control opinions for companies with ineffective internal controls, consistent with increased professional reputational concerns following engagement partner identification. We also document a relative increase in audit effort, as measured by audit fees and reporting delays, for clients with internal control weaknesses compared to those with effective controls. Additionally, we find that adverse internal control opinions are associated with a higher likelihood of partner-level turnover, particularly among non-Big 4 auditors. Further analysis shows that internal partner competition within audit offices, in the post- Rule 3211 period, reduces the likelihood of adverse opinions in high-risk engagements, suggesting increased commercial pressures under auditor transparency. Our findings highlight the role of public policy in shaping auditor incentives and reporting behavior, offering important implications for regulators, audit firms, and investors.

Keywords: internal control weaknesses, audit partner, PCAOB Rule 3211, audit effort, audit quality, auditor switching

Suggested Citation:

Jarva, Henry and Myllymäki, Emma-Riikka and Nickpour, Ali, Internal Control Weaknesses and Audit Partners’ Reputation Concerns in the U.S. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243258 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
L J Abbott , C Boland , W Buslepp , S Mccarthy
US Audit partner identification and auditor reporting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 41 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
A Allen , M F Lewis-Western , K Valentine
The Innovation and Reporting Consequences of Financial Regulation for Young Life-Cycle Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 95 Posted: 2022
D Anantharaman , N Wans
Audit office experience with SOX 404 (b) filers and SOX 404 audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , R Petacchi
Consequences of low-quality audits for engagement partners: The importance of audit firm quality control systems Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
491
RANK
872,119
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies