Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO Inside Debt Really Improve Financial Reporting Quality?

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

110 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Stefano Cascino

London School of Economics

Máté Széles

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

David Veenman

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School (ABS)

Date Written: May 07, 2025

Abstract

Recent studies conclude that CEO debt-like incentives, such as defined benefit pensions and deferred compensation ("inside debt"), improve financial reporting quality. We challenge this result on conceptual grounds and evaluate its sensitivity to empirical specification. We reexamine the relation between accrual-based measures of financial reporting quality and CEO inside debt variables and find that it is an artifact of correlated omitted factors that prior studies do not effectively control for. Specifically, we show that the relation disappears when we control for factors related to the volatility and uncertainty of firms' operating environments. Using a two-step approach, we illustrate how the relation between inside debt and accrual-based financial reporting quality measures is driven entirely by the portion of inside debt that is correlated with these factors, rather than a direct effect of inside debt itself. Our findings challenge the prevailing consensus on the incentive effects of inside debt and suggest that prior evidence is likely confounded by omitted variable bias.

Keywords: Inside debt, Pensions, Deferred compensation, Executive compensation, Incentives, Financial reporting quality, Accruals, Earnings management, Reexamination, Replication

Suggested Citation:

Cascino, Stefano and Széles, Máté and Veenman, David, Does CEO Inside Debt Really Improve Financial Reporting Quality? (May 07, 2025). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5245024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5245024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
501
RANK
662,776
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies