Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leveraging LLMs and Other Off-the-Shelf AI/ML for Unstructured Data in Management Research: A Practical Application to Automating Classification and Coding Tasks for Bibliometric and Protest Event Analyses

56 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025

Andy Buschmann

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

Date Written: May 10, 2025

Abstract

Management and strategy researchers frequently work with large volumes of unstructured data, but transforming this data into structured datasets is often resource-intensive and time-consuming. Artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) offer opportunities for more efficient data processing, yet their deployment has traditionally demanded advanced AI/ML knowledge and extensive resources for training, limiting widespread adoption. This study evaluates the efficacy of recent advancements in ‘off-the-shelf AI/ML’ models requiring minimal resources in automating data classification and coding tasks. I apply different methods, including Large Language Models (LLMs) and topic modeling, to research contexts that require extensive unstructured data processing: the bibliometric analysis of journal articles and protest event analysis (PEA). Apart from demonstrating the practicality of off-the-shelf AI/ML methods, the bibliometric analysis of articles published over twenty years in top management journals reveals that 50-75% of papers now rely on unstructured data, which are still mostly manually processed. For PEA, I compare the performance of different off-the-shelf AI/ML models against established methods, including human coders. While topic modeling approaches show limitations for classification tasks, the LLM performed on par with human coders and even surpassed them in capturing nuanced ‘soft facts’ requiring subjective judgment. The LLM was on average more than twice as accurate as two human coders. Beyond presenting new empirical evidence of the adoption of AI/ML and performance of off-the-shelf AI/ML, this paper serves as a methodological resource with a companion website offering tutorials, code, and best practices, ultimately expanding the methodological toolkit available to management researchers.

Keywords: Unstructured Data, Large Language Models, LLMs, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Bibliometric Analysis, Protest Event Analysis, GPT-4, OpenAI, o3, LDA, Quantitative Content Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Buschmann, Andy, Leveraging LLMs and Other Off-the-Shelf AI/ML for Unstructured Data in Management Research: A Practical Application to Automating Classification and Coding Tasks for Bibliometric and Protest Event Analyses (May 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5249959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5249959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
493
RANK
614,026
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies