Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Silent resistance to organizational change -an Australian perspective

19 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025 Last revised: 10 Jun 2025

Mamun Billah

Western Sydney University

Ann Sardesai

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zahir Ahmed

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: May 14, 2025

Abstract

Purpose-The paper draws on Van Dyne et al.'s (2003) conceptual framework of silence to resistance and investigates academics' response to performance management. Design/methodology/approach-Adopting a case study of an Australian university that underwent significant strategic changes between 2004 and 2008, a thematic analysis is undertaken based on data collected via in-depth interviews with staff at different levels of management and academics across all ranks. A semi-structured questionnaire is also administered to all academics to understand their perceptions to changes within the university. Findings-The findings reveal that academics chose to play the game of silent resistance-concentrating their efforts on acquiescent silence and defensive silence in response to organizational changes. The results also reveal that one of the main reasons academics adopted this form of resistance is due to their fear of being made redundant. Research limitations/implications-Despite its contributions, our study has several limitations. First, it is based on a single case study of a large Australian university, which may limit the generalizability of the findings. Second, the study relied on self-reported data, which may be subject to bias. Practical implications-The study highlights the importance of comprehending the various forms of employee resistance, with a focus on performance management, which bridges the behavioural research gap in this field and facilitates an improved understanding of academics' views on performance management and their behaviour towards the same. Originality/value-The originality of the paper lies in its twofold contribution: First, it links Van Dyne et al.'s (2003) conceptual framework of silence and voice to resistance in academic environments, which to our knowledge, has not been explored so far. Second, it highlights the development of a silent resistance strategy by academics through "silent treatment", an idea of "social ostracism" within the context of business schools in Australian universities.

Keywords: Higher education, Organizational change, Performance management, Silence, Silent resistance Paper type Research paper

Suggested Citation:

Billah, Mamun and Sardesai, Ann and Ahmed, Zahir, Silent resistance to organizational change -an Australian perspective (May 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5251921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5251921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
254
RANK
819,220
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies