Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Accountants Increase Economic Activity?

58 Pages Posted: 27 May 2025

Elizabeth Blankespoor

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Suresh Nallareddy

University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Kevin Standridge

University of Utah - School of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether and how increasing the number of accountants affects economic activity using data from over 1.1 million establishments. Employing Bartik's (1991) method to tackle endogeneity, we find that increasing a county's accounting employment leads to higher gross domestic product, employment, business activity, and wages. Furthermore, accountants incrementally contribute to economic growth relative to business or all other occupations. Improved aggregate economic activity is related to increased job creation and establishment entry, increased small business loans, and productivity gains. We further corroborate our findings by using the 150-credit-hour CPA requirement and the H-1B visa lottery as shocks to accountant employment. Our findings highlight the economic benefits of increasing the number of accountants in the economy.

Keywords: accounting employment, economic growth, labor productivity

JEL Classification: M41, J23, J24, J44, L26

Suggested Citation:

Blankespoor, Elizabeth and Nallareddy, Suresh and Standridge, Kevin, Do Accountants Increase Economic Activity? (May 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5259443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5259443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D Aobdia , R R Carnes , K Munch
The Role of High-Skilled Foreign Accounting Labor in Shaping US Startup Outcomes Posted: 2024
D Aobdia , Q Li , K Na , H Wu
The Influence of Labor Market Power in the Audit Profession
The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2024
D Aobdia , A Srivastava , E Wang
Are immigrants complements or substitutes? Evidence from the audit industry
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 5 , p. 1997 - 2012 Posted: 2018
C S Armstrong , J E Core , D J Taylor , R E Verrecchia
When does information asymmetry affect the cost of capital
Journal of accounting research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,121
RANK
221,944
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies