Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scenes of Co-Parenting: A Counseling Session on the Future of Environmental Accounting Research

25 Pages Posted: 27 May 2025

Daniel Reimsbach

University of Paderborn

Abstract

The world of academic research often mirrors the intricacies of personal relationships. Driven by contrasting ideologies, different schools of thought can clash even when united under the same banner. Such is the case with environmental accounting research, a field teetering between the realms of different paradigms. The tension between them—personified here as M, I, and C—threatens the very future of the “child” that they co-parent: environmental accounting research. In an attempt to reconcile their differences and find a path forward, they turn to a counseling session, hoping for resolution, or at the very least, a mutual understanding. What follows is a scene of conflict, compromise, and hopefully, clarity, where academic disputes take the form of familial quarrels. A co-parenting arrangement in crisis, but one that carries implications far beyond the personal.

Keywords: Environmental Accounting, accounting paradigms, interdisciplinarity, counseling

Suggested Citation:

Reimsbach, Daniel, Scenes of Co-Parenting: A Counseling Session on the Future of Environmental Accounting Research. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5270176 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5270176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
119
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies