Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Perceptions of Corporate Culture and Management Forecast Accuracy: Evidence from Glassdoor and ChatGPT

Accounting Horizons, 2025[10.2308/HORIZONS-2023-142]

35 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025 Last revised: 30 Jun 2025

Anna Bergman Brown

Clarkson University

Victor Xiaoqi Wang

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration

Aner Zhou

San Diego State University

Date Written: May 24, 2025

Abstract

Using a sample of 1.5 million Glassdoor ratings, this study shows that perceptions of better corporate culture, as proxied by higher Glassdoor ratings, are associated with more accurate management forecasts. We hypothesize that one of the channels driving the association between corporate culture and forecast accuracy is a better internal information environment. To test this conjecture, we use a ChatGPT-based textual analysis of Glassdoor reviews to measure employee perceptions of firms' internal information environments. We find that better internal information environments are associated with more accurate management forecasts, including when employees perceive a stronger organizational culture and better communication channels. Furthermore, we show that approximately 47% of the impact of Glassdoor ratings on management forecast accuracy is driven by the perceived internal information environment. Overall, this study sheds light on how corporate culture is linked with firm disclosure via better information sharing within the organization.

Keywords: Corporate Culture, Employee Satisfaction, Glassdoor, Management Forecast, Voluntary Disclosure, ChatGPT, Internal Information Environment

JEL Classification: G17, J01, M40

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Anna Bergman and Wang, Victor Xiaoqi and Zhou, Aner, Employee Perceptions of Corporate Culture and Management Forecast Accuracy: Evidence from Glassdoor and ChatGPT (May 24, 2025). Accounting Horizons, 2025[10.2308/HORIZONS-2023-142], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5271787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-2023-142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,497
RANK
359,102
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies