Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Truth in Accounting: A Review and Assessment

27 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Andreas Andrikopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department Maritime Studies

Vasilios-Christos Naoum

University of Piraeus

Abstract

We review the concept of truth in accounting literature according to major theories of truth, assess the meaning of truth in the accounting profession and academia, and delineate objectivity and subjectivity with respect to truth. Adhering to a critical realist epistemology, we propose the concept of ε-truth as a measure of truth in accounting and we argue that a) truth is indispensable as an epistemic property of accounting propositions, such as the ones found in financial or sustainability reports, b) the reality that accounting propositions describe exists independently of individual perceptions of this reality (ontological objectivity), c) the reality of accounting propositions can only be perceived in ways that are subjective and fallible (epistemic subjectivity), with fallibility relying inevitably on ontological objectivity, d) the varying degrees of discretion in producing, assessing and employing accounting propositions reflect varieties in the content of truth and the possibilities of correspondence as truth-checking technology.

Keywords: Critical accounting theory, correspondence theory of truth, coherence theory of truth, pragmatist theory of truth

Suggested Citation:

Andrikopoulos, Andreas and Naoum, Vasilios-Christos, Truth in Accounting: A Review and Assessment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5272334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5272334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
301
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies