Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Philosophy and the Challenge of Past Trends' Failures (A Perspective of Overoptimism)

6 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: May 28, 2025

Abstract

Management accounting is mostly about costing and budgeting, and has been developed to be strategic management accounting to manage the cost and budgeting strategically. I present in this article my view regarding how far the philosophy of management accounting and strategic costs has added to the international economy and the international goods and services markets. Management accounting had a past vision in the 90s, affected by new trends back then, that could have created sustainability to help future generations. Nevertheless, complications and complexity hit the world in several aspects, and the direction of production and services has shifted to new technologies, financial innovation and artificial intelligence that require good management and cost accounting systems to account for them, and also can be used to develop the techniques of management accounting used for costing and budgeting and fairly compete in the markets. New challenges require expanding and developing the philosophy of management accounting, well known to accountants since its appearance in the context of accounting, but not replacing it. I present in this article how the world is looking like after all the past trends that seem to have failed due to past overoptimism.

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Management Accounting Philosophy and the Challenge of Past Trends' Failures (A Perspective of Overoptimism) (May 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5272653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5272653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies