Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting is the Language of Sustainability: A Measurement Framework for Carbon Accounting

38 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2025

Peter D. Easton

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Gary K. Taylor

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

George W. Ruch

University of Denver - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 05, 2025

Abstract

We explore the prospects of adapting financial accounting concepts to sustainability accounting. To illustrate, we introduce a carbon accounting measurement framework for net-zero pledges that parallels the financial reporting framework for lease accounting (ASC Topic 842). Under this framework, entities prepare emission reduction schedules to achieve net-zero targets by a specific date. This proposed framework creates pledge asset and liability accounts (the present value of projected emissions) as beginning balances, which are amortised like lease assets and liabilities. A carbon flow statement tracks actual emissions and pledge variances, providing information regarding an entity's progress toward its net-zero target. Significant variances may result in a revised emission reduction schedule or target date. The pledges may be monitored and audited.

Keywords: carbon emissions, accounting, net zero, carbon pledge, sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Easton, Peter D. and Taylor, Gary Kenneth and Ruch, George W., Accounting is the Language of Sustainability: A Measurement Framework for Carbon Accounting (May 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5283373 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5283373
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Accountability
AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Posted: 2024
Measure pollution, drive solutions Posted: 2025-04-29
P Bolton , M Kacpercyzk
The Global Pricing of Carbon Transition Risk
The Journal of Finance , p. 3677 - 3754 Posted: 2023
M Buffett , D Clark
Warren Buffett and the Interpretation of Financial Statements: The Search for the Company with a Durable Competitive Advantage Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
526
RANK
545,235
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies