Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting the Median: Revisiting the Puzzling Parity in Management and Analyst Forecast Accuracy

51 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Wei Chen

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Todd Kravet

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Bo Ren

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: June 06, 2025

Abstract

A substantial body of theoretical and empirical literature argues that managers, as insiders, possess an information advantage over outside parties such as financial analysts. However, recent research documents that managers and analysts are each more accurate than the other about half the time when forecasting earnings. This observation has been attributed to the parity in their information sets: managers' firm-level information advantage is seen as comparable to analysts' macro-level information advantage. Motivated by these mixed views, we revisit the puzzling parity in management and analyst forecast accuracy. Building on previous research, we argue that both managers and analysts face a linear loss function and, therefore, forecast the median of future earnings. Accordingly, we examine the efficacy of their forecasts in predicting this median. Our findings reveal that managers consistently maintain a superior overall information advantage over analysts across various contexts. More importantly, we show that the puzzling parity arises because the volatility of future earnings is much larger than the discrepancy between management and analyst forecasts.

Keywords: forecast accuracy, management forecast, analyst forecast, linear loss function, quadratic loss function, median regression, predicting future earnings JEL classification: G10, G17, G20, M41, financial accounting, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wei and Kravet, Todd and Ren, Bo, Forecasting the Median: Revisiting the Puzzling Parity in Management and Analyst Forecast Accuracy (June 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5284497 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5284497
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Can stock recommendations predict earnings management and analysts' earnings forecast errors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
B B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
A Ali , D Amiram , A Kalay , G Sadka
Industry sensitivity to external forces and the information advantage of analysts over managers
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 1107 - 1135 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
RANK
667,591
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies