Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comprehensive Analysis of Financial Performance in Leading U.S. Airline Companies.

Journal of Emerging Technologies and Innovative Research, volume 12, issue 5, 2025[10.56975/jetir.v12i5.563413]

12 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Sejalben Makwana

The CVM University

Date Written: May 28, 2025

Abstract

This research paper presents an in-depth and original examination of the financial performance and profitability of four leading U.S. airlines-Delta Airlines, American Airlines, Southwest Airlines and United Airlines Holdings inc. based on four years of financial data. Firmly grounded in the context of the U.S. aviation industry, which is vital to national infrastructure and economic development, the study evaluates key financial indicators including gross profit margin, net profit margin, return on assets (ROA), return on equity (ROE), return on investment (ROI), debt-to-equity ratio, liquidity, efficiency and turnover ratios etc. Through a combination of trend analysis and comparative assessment, the research identifies the most financially resilient and strategically efficient airlines among the selected companies. Financial data is drawn from publicly available annual reports and investor disclosures to ensure accuracy and credibility. The findings offer insights into each company's operational efficiency, cost management, asset utilization, and capital structure.

Keywords: U.S. airlines, aviation industry, financial performance, profitability analysis, financial ratios, ratio analysis, comparative analysis

Suggested Citation:

Makwana, Sejalben, A Comprehensive Analysis of Financial Performance in Leading U.S. Airline Companies. (May 28, 2025). Journal of Emerging Technologies and Innovative Research, volume 12, issue 5, 2025[10.56975/jetir.v12i5.563413], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5289948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Graph -6
Account Receivable Turnover Ratio of US Airline Companies , p. 2021 - 2024
From 2021 to 2024, all four airlines showed a rising trend in their accounts receivable turnover ratios, indicating improved efficiency in collecting payments from customers. Delta Airlines increased steadily from 12.44 to 19.12, reflecting better credit and collection practices
Table -6.10 Return on Equity Ratio of US Airline Companies of , p. 2021 - 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
622,742
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies