Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Proposal for Increasing Research Publication Efficiency Within the Accounting Discipline

50 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Olena V. Watanabe

Iowa State University - Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business

James N. Cannon

Iowa State University; Utah State University, School of Accountancy

Kathryn Brightbill

Utah State University - School of Accountancy

Abstract

Accounting scholars have argued that the publication process is inefficient and noisy to the point of being wasteful. Particularly, lengthy review waiting times and low acceptance rates provide evidence of inefficiency, while conflicting reviews suggest a noisy assessment process hampered by gatekeeping. In this paper, we adopt transparency as a guiding principle to propose several recommendations to increase research publication efficiency and innovation in the accounting discipline. Specifically, we recommend that in-process knowledge (e.g., working papers) be made publicly available throughout the entire publication process, that reviewers publicly self-select into the role of providing knowledge quality assessment and improvement, and that journal editors focus solely on their assurance role. We evaluate our recommendations using simple analytical models of knowledge creation, assessment and improvement, and assurance. Finally, we anticipate potential resistance to our recommendations, describe alternative and additional solutions, and invite future discourse.

Keywords: Publication process, Review process, Reviewers, Editors

Suggested Citation:

Watanabe, Olena V. and Cannon, James N. and Cannon, James N. and Brightbill, Kathryn, A Proposal for Increasing Research Publication Efficiency Within the Accounting Discipline. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5294067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5294067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
B Aczel , B Szaszi , A Holmcombe
A billion-dollar donation: Estimating the cost of researchers' time spent on peer review
Research Integrity and Peer Review , volume 6 , issue 14 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2021
R Adler , G Liyanarachchi
An empirical examination of the editorial review processes of accounting journals
Accounting & Finance , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 837 - 867 Posted: 2011
H Aguinis , C Cummings , R S Ramani , T G Cummings
An A is an A": The new bottom line for valuing academic research , volume 34 , p. 135 - 154 Posted: 2020
E D Almer , M Bertolini , J L Higgs
A model of individual accounting faculty salaries
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 411 - 433 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
243
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies