Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Information Technology, HR Competence, Internal Control, and Organizational Culture on the Quality of Financial Reports

16 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

Suhardi

University of Pertiba; Sekolah Tinggi Ilmu Ekonomi Pertiba Pangkalpinang

Date Written: April 30, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the influence of Human Resource (HR) competence, Internal Control Systems (ICS), Information Technology (IT) utilization, and organizational behavior on the quality of financial statements in local governments, with public accountability as a mediating variable. It aims to understand how these factors enhance transparency and compliance in financial reporting. A quantitative approach was employed, using a survey of 200 local government officials, selected via purposive sampling. Data were collected through questionnaires and analyzed using Structural Equation Modeling with Partial Least Squares (SEM-PLS), testing direct and mediated effects of the variables on financial statement quality. HR competence, ICS, IT utilization, and organizational behavior significantly improve financial statement quality. Public accountability directly enhances quality and mediates the effects of HR competence, ICS, IT utilization, and organizational behavior, all with p < 0.05, confirming all hypotheses. The findings advance Agency Theory and related frameworks by highlighting public accountability's mediating role. Practically, local governments can improve financial reporting by enhancing HR training, strengthening ICS, adopting IT systems, and fostering transparent cultures, offering a model for improved governance and public trust.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Information Technology, HR Competence, Internal Control, Organizational Culture

Suggested Citation:

Suhardi, Suhardi, The Effect of Information Technology, HR Competence, Internal Control, and Organizational Culture on the Quality of Financial Reports (April 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5296873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5296873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
588
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies