Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Study of Financial Analysis of Selected Airline Companies in India.

International Journal for Research Trends and Innovation (IJRTI), Volume 10, Issue-6, June 2025, Pp.a1-a277

277 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2025

Sejalben Makwana

The CVM University

K.V Solanki

Sardar Patel University

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

The aviation industry symbolises connectivity and progress in an era of globalisation and rapid technological advancements. As the demand for air travel continues to soar, understanding the financial dynamics of airline companies becomes paramount. This thesis believes in the intricate world of financial analysis within the Indian aviation sector. Throughout this thesis, I have endeavoured to explore and dissect the financial performance of the selected airline companies operating in India. Drawing upon rigorous research methodologies and analytical tools, I aim to provide a comprehensive understanding of the financial health, challenges, and opportunities within this dynamic industry. The comparative approach adopted in this study enables a nuanced examination of various metrics across different airline companies, including profitability, liquidity, solvency, and efficiency. By juxtaposing these findings, readers will gain valuable insights into the relative strengths and weaknesses of trends shaping the Indian aviation landscape. This thesis is a valuable resource for academics, industry professionals, policymakers, and enthusiasts. It fosters more profound, comprehensive, informed decision-making within aviation finance.

Suggested Citation:

Makwana, Sejalben and Solanki, K.V, A Comparative Study of Financial Analysis of Selected Airline Companies in India. (September 05, 2024). International Journal for Research Trends and Innovation (IJRTI), Volume 10, Issue-6, June 2025, Pp.a1-a277, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5310020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
444
RANK
848,551
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies