Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

A Comparative Study of Financial Analysis of Kaira District Central Co-Operative Bank Ltd. Nadiad and Baroda District Central Co-Operative Bank Ltd. Baroda

Sardar Patel University, Master of Philosophy (Commerce), Pp.1-131, June 2014



152 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025

Sejalben Makwana

The CVM University

Date Written: April 28, 2014

Abstract

The co-operative primary societies in a specified are a federated into a central societywhich is called a central bank as banking union. Historically speaking, the term central bank is used when the central society admits and its member’s not only primary societies but also individuals.The phase banking union is used when membership is confirmed to societies only and individual members are excluded. The present trend; however is to refer both these institutions as central bank. A cooperative is generally viewed as a social economic organization that can fulfill both social and economic objectives of its members, and that has its members' interests truly at heart. A cooperative is based on certain values and principles of its own, which distinguish it from other forms of organizations. Cooperation has three dimensions, that is, economic, social and moral, which are equally crucial for its success. The very motto of cooperation, 'each for all and all for each', signifies loyalty, trust, faith and fellowship. A cooperative is a perfect democratic institution of the members, for the members, and by the members, and is based on the 'one member, one vote' system of decision making. Cooperative institutions are intended for the welfare of the common mans particularly the rural poor section and have to continue to play a vital role in the economic upliftment of the people. Cooperatives are also envisaged as an instrument for implementing many important policies like agricultural credit, market intervention, and price support for agricultural commodities, Public Distribution System etc. The Cooperative Institutions as effective channels of credit for farm sector and non-farm sector and urban co operative credit have played a significant role in the development of rural and urban economy. In Surroundings of Nadiad and Baroda cities, I had observed the efficiency running of co-operative bank. These Banks are not giving good dividend but also give periodically some gifts to their members and this is possible only if the banks are earning good. Thus, co-operative banks are the People’s bank organized by people and for the benefit of people living in small cities, towns and metropolitans of this country. This has tempted me to select the topic of my dissertation. 

Keywords: Financial analysis, Cooperative banks, District central cooperative banks, Financial performance, Ratio analysis, Indian banking, Kaira DCCB Nadiad, Baroda DCCB Baroda, Profitability Ratios, Liquidity Management, Comparative Financial Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Makwana, Sejalben,

A Comparative Study of Financial Analysis of Kaira District Central Co-Operative Bank Ltd. Nadiad and Baroda District Central Co-Operative Bank Ltd. Baroda

(April 28, 2014).
Sardar Patel University, Master of Philosophy (Commerce), Pp.1-131, June 2014


, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5312252 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5312252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
260
RANK
833,650
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies