Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Dividend-Price Ratio Shifts and Stock Return Predictability

13 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2025

David G. McMillan

University of Stirling

Date Written: June 21, 2025

Abstract

Stock return predictability arising from the dividend-price ratio is a key relation in our understanding of asset pricing and the relation between real and financial markets. However, empirical evidence is weak, leading to the consideration of alternative specifications. Notably, research shows that such dividend-price ratio predictability for stock returns is uncovered when the ratio is adjusted either for breaks or a component (trend) structure. While such an adjustment reveals predictive power it does not explain the drivers behind the shifting ratio. This paper considers whether an adjustment using macroeconomic variables (growth and inflation) revels the same degree of predictive power using 48 international markets. Results are mixed. Across the range of markets, the macro-adjusted ratio achieves similar predictive power for most of the G7 and Asia-Pacific markets but is less successful for non-G7 European and Middle Eastern markets. These results suggest that while moving towards an understanding of the shifting dividend-price ratio, we are not there yet. However, this also implies that there will be diversification opportunities across stocks as they respond to different factors.

Keywords: Stock Returns, Dividend-Price Ratio, Predictability, Adjustment

JEL Classification: C22, G12

Suggested Citation:

McMillan, David G., Understanding Dividend-Price Ratio Shifts and Stock Return Predictability (June 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5314842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5314842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
RANK
672,440
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies