Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Design Choices for an Enumerator Recruitment Experiment

Global Poverty Research Lab Research Methods Notes

6 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2025

Navishti Das

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Andrew Dillon

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Srishti Gupta

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Deepika Nagesh

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Date Written: October 31, 2024

Abstract

This research methods note documents the design and implementation of a skill-based referral recruitment experiment for enumerators in the Philippines. Conducted in partnership with Innovations for Poverty Action (IPA), the study aimed to assess whether recruiting through social networks, specifically by eliciting referrals for candidates with strong skills such as conscientiousness and active listening, could improve the quality of data collection. The experimental design randomized trusted enumerators to refer candidates based on one of the two targeted skills and implemented a phased recruitment process, including a ‘friends of friends’ referral approach. However, the design encountered multiple challenges in the field, including limited network sizes, overlapping referral pools,  and difficulties in skill identification among peers. The note outlines these implementation failures, offering practical takeaways for future studies, including the need for early network mapping, alignment with existing recruitment channels, and more robust training. 

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, Global Poverty Research Lab and Das, Navishti and Dillon, Andrew and Gupta, Srishti and Nagesh, Deepika, Design Choices for an Enumerator Recruitment Experiment (October 31, 2024). Global Poverty Research Lab Research Methods Notes, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5335085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5335085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
171
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Randomized Social Experiments eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies