Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Analysis of Conference-Driven Return Drift in Tech Stocks

5 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2025 Last revised: 8 Aug 2025

Radovan Vojtko

Quantpedia

Cyril Dujava

Quantpedia

Date Written: July 07, 2025

Abstract

Corporate conferences have long been recognized as pivotal events in financial markets, serving as catalysts that signal upcoming innovations and strategic shifts. Scheduled corporate events induce market reactions that can be systematically analyzed to reveal predictable return patterns. In this work, we focus on examining the return drift exhibited by technology stocks in the days surrounding their respective conferences, employing simple quantitative methods with daily price data. The hypothesized return drift is premised on the notion that investor sentiment and market dynamics are significantly altered by the information disseminated at these conferences. Investors, reacting to both anticipatory signals and post-announcement adjustments, tend to drive prices in a measurable manner in the windows immediately preceding, during, and after the events. By systematically analyzing stocks of companies such as Apple, Google, and Microsoft, this study aims to validate the existence of these drift patterns and shed light on the underlying mechanisms, thereby enhancing mutual understanding of event-driven asset pricing dynamics.

Keywords: alternative data, Apple, Google, growth stocks, market timing, own-research, tech conferences, tech stocks

Declaration of Interest

☒ The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Suggested Citation:

Vojtko, Radovan and Dujava, Cyril, An Empirical Analysis of Conference-Driven Return Drift in Tech Stocks (July 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5342359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5342359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment in the stock market
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 21 , p. 129 - 152 Posted: 2007
M J Brennan , S W Huh , A Subrahmanyam
High-frequency measures of informed trading and corporate announcements
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , p. 2326 - 2376 Posted: 2018
D Cutler , J Poterba , L Summers
What Moves Stock Prices? NBER Working Papers 2538
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 1988
E F Fama
Market efficiency, long-term returns, and behavioral finance1the comments of brad barber, david hirshleifer, s.p. kothari, owen lamont, mark mitchell, hersh shefrin, robert shiller, rex sinquefield, richard thaler, theo vermaelen, robert vishny, ivo welch, and a referee have been helpful. kenneth french and jay ritter get special thanks.1
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 49 , p. 283 - 306 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
173
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies