Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Cross-Country Study of the Impact of Ownership Structure on the Voluntary Audit Decisions of Private Entities in Developing Countries

Accounting & Finance,  [10.1111/acfi.70060]

55 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 14 Jul 2025

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Sarowar Hossain

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: July 14, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between ownership structure and voluntary audit decisions using a sample of 29,143 private entities across 112 developing countries. The findings indicate that private entities with higher foreign and government ownership are more likely to engage in voluntary audits, while those with greater block ownership are less likely to do so. The positive (negative) impact of foreign and government ownership (block ownership) on voluntary audit is more (less) pronounced in countries with weaker creditor rights, stronger financial development, and higher corruption, although the effect of foreign ownership does not significantly vary with corruption levels. Additionally, we find that the positive relationship between foreign ownership and voluntary audit is weakened in the presence of government ownership, suggesting a potential substitution effect. These findings offer important implications for regulators, auditors, and policymakers, underscoring the need to consider both ownership structures and institutional contexts when designing audit regulations and governance policies for private entities.

Keywords: Voluntary audit, ownership structure, cross-country, creditor rights, corruption, developing countries JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Hossain, Sarowar, A Cross-Country Study of the Impact of Ownership Structure on the Voluntary Audit Decisions of Private Entities in Developing Countries (July 14, 2025). Accounting & Finance,  [10.1111/acfi.70060], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why do private companies demand auditing? A case for organizational loss of control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 8 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
J S Ahlquist , A Prakash
The influence of foreign direct investment on contracting confidence in developing countries
Regulation & Governance , volume 2 , p. 316 - 339 Posted: 2008
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
128
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies