Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Specifics Matter: An Analysis of Mutual Fund ESG Disclosures

51 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2025

Huayu Shi

University of Auckland

Xing Han

University of Auckland Business School

John B. Lee

University of Auckland Business School

Helen Lu

Vlerick Business School; KU Leuven, Department Accounting, Finance and Insurance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 01, 2024

Abstract

This study employs a Large Language Model to quantify the specificity of mutual funds' Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) disclosures. We find that funds with more specific disclosures attract greater investor flows, particularly among institutional-oriented funds and during periods of heightened climate concern. Disclosure specificity is also positively associated with the ESG performance of future fund holdings. These findings suggest that specific ESG disclosures serve as credible signals of a fund's ESG commitment, enabling investors to make more informed, sustainability-conscious decisions. The results offer empirical support for recent regulatory efforts to promote more structured and detailed ESG reporting.

Keywords: Mutual Fund Disclosures, ESG, Fund Flows, LLM, Specificity

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Huayu and Han, Xing and Lee, John B. and Lu, Helen, Specifics Matter: An Analysis of Mutual Fund ESG Disclosures (February 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5355991 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5355991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
S Abis , A Lines
Broken promises, competition, and capital allocation in the mutual fund industry
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 162 Posted: 2024
R Abouarab , T Mishra , S Wolfe
Spotting portfolio greenwashing in environmental funds
Journal of Business Ethics , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
J Abraham , M Olbert , F Vasvari
ESG disclosures in the private equity industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1611 - 1660 Posted: 2024
A Andrikogiannopoulou , P Krueger , S F Mitali , F Papakonstantinou
Discretionary information in ESG investing: A text analysis of mutual fund prospectuses Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
163
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies