Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

A Use of Sampling Technique in Research - A Special Reference to Commerce and Management

A Use of Sampling Technique In Research-A Special Reference To Commerce And Management, C.Z Patel College of Business & Mgt., CVM University, Pp.1-21, July 2025

21 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2025

Sejalben Makwana

The CVM University

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Sampling techniques are essential tools in conducting research, particularly in the disciplines of commerce and management, where large populations and complex variables are common. This paper focuses on the practical application and significance of various sampling methods in obtaining accurate and reliable data. It explains both probability and non-probability sampling techniques and their suitability for different research purposes. The study emphasizes the role of effective sampling in minimizing resource use while maximizing the validity of results. Realworld scenarios from commerce and management are used to demonstrate how appropriate sampling enhances decision-making and strategic planning. This research aims to assist scholars and professionals in selecting the most appropriate sampling approach based on the nature and goals of their studies.

Keywords: A Use of Sampling Technique, Sampling Techniques in Research, Research Methodology in Commerce, Probability and Non-Probability Sampling, Data Collection Methods in Research, Commerce and Management Research, Quantitative Research in Business, Application of Sampling in Research

Suggested Citation:

Makwana, Sejalben,

A Use of Sampling Technique in Research - A Special Reference to Commerce and Management

(July 01, 2025).

A Use of Sampling Technique In Research-A Special Reference To Commerce And Management, C.Z Patel College of Business & Mgt., CVM University, Pp.1-21, July 2025

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5359855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5359855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
W G Cochran
Measure all units within sampled clusters References
Sampling techniques Posted: 1963
W G Cochran
Sampling techniques Posted: 1977
W E Deming
Some theory of sampling
Sampling theory Posted: 1950
The design of sample surveys Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
434
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies