Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Words: The Challenge of Measuring Financial Text Across Borders

Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2025 Last revised: 24 Jul 2025

Jedson Pinto

University of Texas at Dallas

Federico Siano

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: July 20, 2025

Abstract

Dictionary-based methods are widely used to assess the information content of corporate disclosures, yet they are primarily developed within the U.S. context. This study applies a popular U.S.-based dictionary approach to analyze the disclosure sentiment of 200,960 earnings call transcripts across 85 countries. While disclosure sentiment is positively associated with short-window stock returns globally, the relationship is approximately 30% weaker for non-U.S. firms. Drawing on cultural accounting theory, we find that cultural differences play a central role in explaining this disparity. In terms of practical implications, we find that sentiment-based trading strategies are effective for U.S. firms and for non-U.S. firms operating in culturally similar environments, but not for firms from culturally distant countries. To address potential endogeneity, we use linguistic features as instrumental variables reflecting historical cultural values. Additionally, we apply a machine learning model trained on U.S. data, which continues to uncover cultural limitations when used internationally. Our findings underscore the importance of institutional and cultural context in international textual analysis and highlight the limitations of applying U.S.-centric empirical methods globally. The development of culturally sensitive and contextualized empirical approaches has the potential to advance the measurement and understanding of financial communication in international settings.

Keywords: Context, Cultural Distance, International Communication, Investor Reaction, Language, Qualitative Disclosure, Financial Text

Suggested Citation:

Pinto, Jedson and Siano, Federico, Beyond Words: The Challenge of Measuring Financial Text Across Borders (July 20, 2025). Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5362858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5362858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
363
RANK
439,059
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies