Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perception Matters: The Public's Perception of the SEC and Engagement in Financial Markets

40 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Austin Moss

University of Colorado at Boulder

Jackie Wegner

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Colorado at Boulder, Leeds School of Business, Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 11, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether public perception of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) influences engagement with U.S. financial markets by developing a novel measure of SEC perception derived from tweets mentioning the SEC. Using this measure, we first document considerable time-series variation in the public's views of the primary financial market regulator; they hold a positive, neutral, and negative perception 29%, 58%, and 13% of the time, respectively. Then we examine the influence of SEC perception on the general public's engagementoperationalized with retail investor trading activities-with the stock market. We find that retail trading activity is significantly associated with SEC perception: daily retail turnover is 3.6% higher during periods of positive perception and 3.4% lower during periods of negative perception, relative to neutral periods. This relationship is more pronounced for firms where SEC oversight is particularly important-small firms and those with low institutional ownership-and when there is greater consensus in public perception. We also find that SEC perception influences retail trading behavior around earnings announcements: their trading volume is positively associated with SEC perception, and they rely more heavily on earnings information during periods of positive perception, consistent with enhanced perceived credibility of SEC-regulated disclosures. Collectively, our results highlight that the public's perception of the SEC shapes market engagement and information usage.

Keywords: Perception, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Accounting Information, Retail Investors, Regulator, Financial Market Engagement

Declaration of Interest

The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.

Suggested Citation:

Moss, Austin and Wegner, Jackie, Perception Matters: The Public's Perception of the SEC and Engagement in Financial Markets (July 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5364831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5364831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
N Ashkanasy , A Dorris
Organizational Behavior. Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Psychology Posted: 2017
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
E Bartov , L Faurel , P S Mohanram
Can Twitter help predict firm-level earnings and stock returns?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 57 Posted: 2018
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , J Wertz , C Zhu
Why do individual investors disregard accounting information? The roles of information awareness and acquisition costs
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 84 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
274
RANK
888,754
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies