Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Value of Auditing Services for Private Firms

The Wharton School Research Paper

50 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Edwige Cheynel

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Lisa Yao Liu

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Lijing Tong

Beijing Jiaotong University

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: July 25, 2025

Abstract

Using voluntary audit decisions of Chinese private firms, we develop a dynamic model that considers the forward-looking behavior of both clients and audit firms. Clients simultaneously decide whether to obtain audits and increase debt, weighing the trade-offs between audit quality and fees offered by Big 10 and non-Big 10 audit firms in an oligopolistic market. Audits conducted by Big 10 firms deliver audit quality that is valued more than their fees, whereas the service quality of non-Big 10 firms has a similar value to the fees they charge. Audits facilitate debt financing by providing certification services while deterring clients from taking on excessive debt. Counterfactual analyses suggest that myopic clients would opt for fewer audits and that mandatory audits would impose small welfare losses on clients and would not materially alter auditor profits, with clients continuing to capture most of the gains and auditors earning limited profit. However, mandates increase Big 10 market share and deter clients from increasing debt, all while having minimal effect on audit quality. These insights can better inform policy decisions.

Keywords: Audit value, Audit certification, Debt financing, Audit quality, Conditional choice probability, Oligopoly

Suggested Citation:

Cheynel, Edwige and Liu, Lisa Yao and Tong, Lijing and Zhou, Frank, Estimating the Value of Auditing Services for Private Firms (July 25, 2025). The Wharton School Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5366462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5366462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
B A Badertscher , J Kim , W R Kinney , E Owens
Assurance level choice, cpa fees, and financial reporting benefits: Inferences from us private firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2023
D Bao , J.-H Choi , B U Kang , W.-J Lee
The effect of external audits: Evidence from voluntary audits of hedge funds
Accounting Horizons , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2021
A Barua , C Lennox , A Raghunandan
Are audit fees discounted in initial year audit engagements?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 69 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
T Bourveau , M Breuer , J Koenraadt , R Stoumbos
Public company auditing around the securities exchange act
Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
387
RANK
563,933
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies