Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The choice for and the effect of CEO television interviews after earnings announcements

61 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025 Last revised: 5 Oct 2025

Anthony Haake

RWTH Aachen University - Department of Finance

Wolfgang Breuer

RWTH Aachen University

Date Written: July 28, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the strategic use of CEO television interviews following earnings announcements in S&P 500 firms to assess how CEOs leverage rich communication channels to influence market perceptions. While prior research highlights the influence of CEO media appearances on market perceptions, their role in managing reactions to earnings surprises – especially negative ones – remains underexplored. Analyzing 1,869 earnings announcements (2023–2024), we find that the probability of a CEO holding an interview rises with the magnitude of the earnings surprises, particularly negative ones. These interviews help mitigate short-term stock price declines but correlate with weaker future firm performance. Notably, interviews that closely echo earnings conference calls (ECCs) improve returns more than those introducing new information as measured by our approach involving large language models and topic modelling. CEOs also tailor their messaging by focusing on external and global topics after negative surprises, while highlighting firm-specific information after positive surprises. This pattern aligns with strategic expectation management and attribution tendencies. Our findings suggest that CEO interviews primarily serve to shape immediate investor sentiment rather than align it with long-term managerial expectations. 

Keywords: CEO Interviews, Earnings Surprises, Market Reactions, Investor Behavior, Strategic Communication Subject classification codes: G14

JEL Classification: G14, G30, M41, D83

Suggested Citation:

Haake, Anthony and Breuer, Wolfgang,
The choice for and the effect of CEO television interviews after earnings announcements
(July 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5369035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5369035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , W A Hillison
Voluntary Causal Disclosures: Tendencies and Capital Market Reaction
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 371 - 389 Posted: 2000
P Bilinski
The Content of Tweets and the Usefulness of YouTube and Instagram in Corporate Communication
European Accounting Review , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2022
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2020
D M Blei , A Y Ng , M I Jordan
Latent dirichlet allocation
Journal of Machine Learning Research , volume 3 , p. 993 - 1022 Posted: 2003-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
441
RANK
880,318
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies