Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distorting Arrow-Debreu Securities: New Entropy Restrictions Implied by the Option Cross-Section *

103 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025 Last revised: 6 Aug 2025

Yan Liu

Purdue University

Fousseni Chabi-Yo

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Jintao Du

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: February 07, 2020

Abstract

Replacing equity return (as in the equity risk premium) with returns on an arbitrary contingent claim, we obtain a new continuum of economic risk premiums to impose upon candidate models. These risk premiums reflect the distance between the physical and risk-neutral moments of asset returns, can be estimated model-free from the option cross-section, and provide sharp information in distinguishing alternative models. We uncover a wide dispersion in performance across leading macro-finance models, confronting them with our risk premiums. Our evidence highlights the importance of incorporating persistent stochastic volatilities and/or higher moments in fundamentals to reconcile with the option data.

Keywords: Risk-neutral moments, Preferences, Entropy, Model-free, Stochastic Discount Factor, Equity risk premium

JEL Classification: E44, G1, G12, G13

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yan and Chabi-Yo, Fousseni and Du, Jintao, Distorting Arrow-Debreu Securities: New Entropy Restrictions Implied by the Option Cross-Section * (February 07, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5377961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5377961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
H Ai
Information quality and long-run risk: Asset pricing implications
The Journal of Finance , volume 65 , issue 4 , p. 1333 - 1367 Posted: 2010
Y Aït-Sahalia , A Lo
Nonparametric risk management and implied risk aversion
Journal of Econometrics , volume 94 , p. 9 - 51 Posted: 2000
C Almeida , R Garcia
Assessing misspecified asset pricing models with empirical likelihood estimators
The Journal of Econometrics , volume 170 , issue 2 , p. 519 - 537 Posted: 2012
C Almeida , R Garcia
Economic implications of nonlinear pricing kernels
Management Science , volume 10 , p. 3361 - 3380 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
149
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies