Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Profitability Analysis of Arunachal Pradesh State Transport Services

10 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Mobom Nyorak

Rajiv Gandhi University

Dr Philip Mody

Rajiv Gandhi University

Date Written: December 14, 2021

Abstract

The study has revealed that, the profitability position of APSTS is unsound. The total cost exceeded total revenue in all the years under study period. The profit margins (operating profit and net profit) are negative throughout the study period. Consequently, their rates of return on investment (ROA) were miserably low and negative. The analysis of ROA reveals that APSTS's management is not efficient at utilizing its available assets. They have either invested a very high capital on fixed assets which generate very low income or they have utilized full capacity of the available fixed assets. Further, the operating cost ratio also reveals that the APSTS's management has incurred operating expenses excessively as it is four times of total revenue. Nevertheless, APSTs has been discharging valuable public services by providing connectivity to remote rural areas which may not be attractive to private operators. It has been providing commendable services for the all-round developmental of the state despite being making profit.

Keywords: Arunachal Pradesh, APSTs, Net Profit, Operating Profit, and, Profitability

Suggested Citation:

Nyorak, Mobom and Mody, Dr Philip,

Profitability Analysis of Arunachal Pradesh State Transport Services

(December 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5379947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5379947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR) www.ijrar.org , volume 839
A Aleeswari
A Study on Service Quality and Passengers' Attitude towards Public Transport in Dindigu (Doctoral thesis Posted: 2012
N Ali , G V Chalam
An evaluation of financial performance of state transport corporations: A case study of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation
Pezzottaite Journals , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 1934 - 1947 Posted: 2010
Annual report of APSTS. Itanagar, India: Department of Transport Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies