Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Idiosyncratic Earnings and Analyst Forecast Properties

34 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2025

Linyi Chen

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Miaodi Han

University of Queensland

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Brian Rountree

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: July 16, 2025

Abstract

We examine how the precision of consensus analysts forecasts varies with the degree of idiosyncratic information embedded in a firm's earnings. We find that greater idiosyncratic earnings-reflecting more firm-specific information-is associated with higher precision of public as well as private information as defined in Barron et al. (1998). The latter result is consistent with analysts increasing their information acquisition efforts when less common information is available. To validate these findings, we show that higher idiosyncratic earnings leads analysts to update forecasts more promptly again consistent with greater efforts. Additionally, greater idiosyncratic earning are associated with a higher cost of capital, consistent with idiosyncratic earnings reflecting greater private information. However, this increase in the cost of capital is attenuated when analysts' private information is more precise. Both patterns are consistent with the theoretical framework of Easley and O'hara (2004). Overall, our findings clarify the complex role of idiosyncratic earnings plays in the information environment and offer researchers a new accounting-based proxy for distinguishing between firms' public and private information environments.

Keywords: analysts, cost of capital, idiosyncratic earnings, precision, private information, public information

Funder Statement

Andrew Jackson acknowledge funding from a UNSW Scientia Fellowship. This research was supported under the Australian Research Council’s Discovery Projects funding scheme (project number DP210101354).

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Linyi and Han, Miaodi and Jackson, Andrew B. and Rountree, Brian Robert, Idiosyncratic Earnings and Analyst Forecast Properties (July 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5380949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5380949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
222
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies