Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IndiGo and SpiceJet Aviation Industries' Contribution towards Indian Economy: In-depth Analysis

International Journal of Creative Research Thoughts,Volume11,Issue 1, Pp.c178-c181,Jan2023

4 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Sejalben Makwana

The CVM University

Date Written: January 01, 2023

Abstract

In the Globe India is recently the 7 th largest civil aviation market and in upcoming years civil aviation market becomes the third largest in the world. According to research data IndiGo airline company is the top airline in the India due to its highest market shares. India has enhanced the third immense domestic aviation market in the globe and also anticipated to overtake UK to become the third largest air traveler market by 2024. The main motto of this research is that Aviation Sector-IndiGo and SpiceJet Airline Industries contribute towards Indian Economy as per their in-depth analysis. The current research study analyzes the profitability of the IndiGo Airline and SpiceJet Airline that are both Private sector companies. This research study is based on secondary data from various annual reports of airline companies.

Suggested Citation:

Makwana, Sejalben, IndiGo and SpiceJet Aviation Industries' Contribution towards Indian Economy: In-depth Analysis (January 01, 2023). International Journal of Creative Research Thoughts,Volume11,Issue 1, Pp.c178-c181,Jan2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5386934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5386934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Bhowal Chandra
Comparative Analysis of the Trend and Financial Performance of Private Indian Airlines
IJEAST Journal , volume 4 , issue 5 Posted: 2019
K A Bharath
Comparative Study on Growth and Financial Performance of Jet Airways, IndiGo Airlines & SpiceJet Airlines Companies in India
ISBR Management Journal , volume 2 , issue 2 Posted: 2017
Sharma Umang
Comparative Study on Financial Performance of Jet Airways and InterGlobe Aviation Working in India
IRJMSH Journal , volume 10 , issue 6 Posted: 2019
Annual Report of IndiGo Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies