Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drivers of Citation in Accounting Research: The Role of Replication

67 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2025

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Yi Luo

Ivey Business School, Western University

Constance Adamson

Queen's University

Date Written: June 21, 2025

Abstract

Documenting accounting research’s impact results in two fundamental challenges for accounting researchers. First, for the traditional measure of academic research impact, citations, there is little theory based research on accounting citation drivers. Second, to measure impact beyond traditional measures there is a lack of understanding about the extent, type and outcomes of accounting replications, which most disciplines believe is a necessary precondition to transfer knowledge outside the academy. We address two research questions: 1) What are the drivers of citation rates in accounting research? 2) How do extent, type, and outcome of replication attempts affect the citations of the original article? We carry out a full text search to find a sample of accounting replication articles, then trace those replications back to the original article(s). We identify three theory based sets of potential citation drivers: Universalistic, Social Constructionist, and Presentation. We find the three sets explain near 50% of the variance in accounting citation rates, with the Universalistic variables as the main drivers. We find some support for Social Constructionist variables as well as very limited support for Presentation variables. Second, when we incorporate replication, we find that the number of original article replications (i.e., replication extent), the “generalize and extend” type of replication, and the outcomes of the replication (i.e., success in whole or in part) are associated with increased citations. We explore whether these drivers also explain the significant time lag (a sample average of seven years) between publication of an original article and a replication article. We find that higher original article citations are associated with less timely replication; having female coauthors on the original article is associated with timelier replication; the composition of the replication article’s author team has a significant impact on timeliness of replication.

Keywords: Citation Drivers, Replication, Financial Accounting, Auditing, Knowledge Transfer

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E. and Luo, Yi and Adamson, Constance, Drivers of Citation in Accounting Research: The Role of Replication (June 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5389228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5389228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Aaa
Research Relevance Task Force)
Report of the task force Posted: 2018
J A Barrick , N W Mecham , S L Summers , D A Wood
Ranking accounting journals by topical area and methodology
Journal of Information Systems , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2019
B C Björk , D Solomon
The publishing delay in scholarly peer-reviewed journals
Journal of Informetrics , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 914 - 923 Posted: 2013
R Bricker
An empirical investigation of the structure of accounting research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 246 - 262 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
237
RANK
791,696
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies