Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Self-regarding and Others-regarding Rewards on Creativity: Behavioral and Neurological Evidence

61 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2025

Adam Presslee

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

HongHong Tang

Beijing Normal University (BNU)

Sue Yang

Texas Tech University

Date Written: August 17, 2025

Abstract

Creativity, the generation of unique, useful proposals, is essential for organizational success; yet the impact of rewards on creativity remains unclear. This study integrates behavioral and neurological evidence to examine how the type of creativity-contingent reward influences proposal uniqueness, usefulness, and overall creativity. Specifically, we compare a no rewards condition to two reward types: others-regarding (prosocial) and self-regarding (cash). We find others-regarding rewards significantly enhance both uniqueness and usefulness, leading to greater overall creativity relative to no rewards. In contrast, we find self-regarding rewards improve usefulness but not uniqueness, resulting in no net gain in creativity. Neuroscientific evidence using functional nearinfrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) shows that others-regarding rewards engage brain areas associated with both divergent and convergent thinking (right Angular Gyrus, right Supramarginal Gyrus), while self-regarding rewards engage areas related to executive control (right Middle Frontal Gyrus) but associated with limited divergent thinking. An additional experiment using transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) provides causal evidence that modulating neural activity in the right Angular Gyrus enhances divergent thinking, increasing the uniqueness of creative output. Together, these findings demonstrate that reward type meaningfully shapes creative outcomes through distinct cognitive mechanisms, which should inform both theory and practice.

Keywords: Cash Reward, Cognitive Processes, Creativity, fNIRS, Self-Regarding, Others-Regarding, Prosocial Reward, tDCS

Declaration of Interest

NA

Ethics Approval

We received approval from the institutional review boards at each author’s affiliated university, and all participants provided informed consent prior to the experiment.

Funder Statement

We thank CPA Ontario’s Centre for Sustainability Reporting and Performance Management and The Lyons School of Accounting at Texas Tech University for their financial support.

Suggested Citation:

Presslee, Adam and Tang, HongHong and Yang, Sue, The Effects of Self-regarding and Others-regarding Rewards on Creativity: Behavioral and Neurological Evidence (August 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5395211 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5395211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
A Abraham
The Neuroscience of Creativity. 1st ed. Cambridge Fundamentals of Neuroscience in Psychology Series Posted: 2018
New Survey Finds While Holiday Payouts are up 66 Percent, Holiday Bonuses are Becoming More Scarce in 2017
PR Newswire Posted: 2017-10-25
I Aggarwal , A W Woolley
Team Creativity, Cognition, and Cognitive Style Diversity
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 4 , p. 1586 - 1599 Posted: 2019
T Amabile
Creativity in context: updates to The social psychology of creativity. Taylor and Francis ebooks Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
236
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies