Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence in Public Sector Audit: Systematic Literature Review and Directions for Future Research

27 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2025

Mariia Godz

University of Granada

Ana María Plata

University of Granada

Germán López-Pérez

University of Granada

Antonio M. López-Hernández

University of Granada

Abstract

Public sector auditing faces numerous challenges as a result of the rapid transformation that artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing in many entities, especially about handling the growing volume and complexity of data. In this context, this study summarizes existing research on the role of AI in auditing public sector organizations through a bibliometric analysis of 34 selected articles that reveal the main trends in terms of authorship, research focus, and geographical contribution. In addition, the study identifies the most frequent keywords and the leading countries in research in this field, while highlighting the shift from exploratory approaches to more structured AI applications, the barriers that hinder its adoption, and the gap that persists between academic research and the practical application of AI tools. Using data from the Web of Science database and following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) methodology, the article presents recommendations for future research, contributing to the academic and professional debate on the implications of AI for public sector auditing, and providing valuable insights for academics, professionals, and policymakers to address these gaps and foster collaboration between researchers and public entities for a more effective adoption of AI in auditing.

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, decision making technologies, Audit, public sector, public administration, machine learning

Suggested Citation:

Godz, Mariia and Plata, Ana María and López-Pérez, Germán and López-Hernández, Antonio M., Artificial Intelligence in Public Sector Audit: Systematic Literature Review and Directions for Future Research. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5399113 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5399113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A Alshahrani , D Dennehy , M Mäntymäki
An attention-based view of AI assimilation in public sector organizations: The case of Saudi Arabia
Government Information Quarterly , volume 39 , issue 4 Posted: 2021
T Antipova
Digital Public Sector Auditing: a look into the future
Webofscience.com; Quality-access to SUCCESS Posted: 2019-01
C M Bitencourt , L H N Martins
A inteligência artificial nos órgãos constitucionais de controle de contas da administração pública brasileira
Revista de Investigações Constitucionais , p. 10 - e253 Posted: 2024
J Bullock , M M Young , Y.-F Wang
Artificial intelligence, bureaucratic form, and discretion in public service
Information Polity , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
816
RANK
826,408
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies