Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Thoughts on Management Accounting Research at The Accounting Review's Centennial

Accepted for publication in The Accounting Review

22 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2025

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Date Written: August 28, 2025

Abstract

On the occasion of The Accounting Review's Centennial, I bring renewed urgency to the need for management accounting research to have practical relevance given the budgetary pressures on higher education. Practically relevant research is also relevant in the classroom. I present three ideas to increase the practical and teaching relevance of management accounting research. First, study the heterogeneity in management accounting practices across industries and embrace single industry research deep dives. Second, focus on the role of management accounting in decision-making, planning and forecasting. Third, explore the connections of management accounting with other subfields in accounting as well as other business disciplines.

Keywords: management accounting research, management accounting teaching, management accounting practice, practical relevance, industry heterogeneity, single industry studies, decision making, internal forecasting, planning, interdisciplinary research

Suggested Citation:

Labro, Eva, Thoughts on Management Accounting Research at The Accounting Review's Centennial (August 28, 2025). Accepted for publication in The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5414199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5414199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Aacsb
State of Business Education Report Posted: 2025-08-25
Cima Aicpa
AICPA Business and Industry Economic Outlook Survey Detailed survey results: 4Q 2022 Management Accounting & Finance Posted: 2022
S W Anderson , K L Sedatole
Designing Quality into Products: The Use of Accounting Data in New Product Development
Accounting Horizons , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 233 Posted: 1998
S W Anderson , K L Sedatole
Evidence on the Cost Hierarchy: The Association between Resource Consumption and Production Activities
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 119 - 141 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
RANK
443,975
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies