Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Much Do International Stocks Move Together: Correlation, Dispersion and Predictability

34 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2025

David G. McMillan

University of Stirling

Date Written: August 29, 2025

Abstract

This paper considers both correlations and dispersion across a range of (48) international stock market returns. The paper also considers the links with key macroeconomic variables and thus, is informative as to the nature of risk and the interaction between the financial and real economies. While correlations have risen over the sample, as commonly observed, evidence suggests a greater dichotomy in the post-Covid-19 period. In seeking to understand correlation movement, inflation plays a greater role compared to growth, except for the markets of East Europe. Moreover, a negative relation implies that higher inflation leads to investors switching between markets. Differences are again noted for East Europe as well as the GCC region. Evidence of predictability arising from cross-sectional returns dispersion is missing in linear regressions, but is revealed through a Markov-switching approach, with coefficients of opposite signs across market phases. Again, linking to macroeconomic variables suggests that higher dispersion acts as a proxy for risk and indicates weaker future economic conditions. Overall, the results in the paper link market and economic risk factors. Where higher correlations imply a lessening of diversification opportunities (market risk), higher inflation typically results in investors looking to adjust portfolios (falling correlations), although this is not universal across markets. Dispersion acts as an economic risk factor implying changes in subsequent economic performance.

Keywords: Stock Returns, Correlation, Cross-Section Dispersion, Predictability

JEL Classification: C22, G12

Suggested Citation:

McMillan, David G., How Much Do International Stocks Move Together: Correlation, Dispersion and Predictability (August 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5417096 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5417096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
166
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies