Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role-Centered Accounting Theory (RCAT) & A Theory-Driven GPT: A Crowdsourcing Project for Scholars

44 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025 Last revised: 8 Sep 2025

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Tamara Lambert

Lehigh University

Marietta Peytcheva

Lehigh University

Date Written: September 04, 2025

Abstract

We designed Role-Centered Accounting Theory (RCAT) to allow scholars to articulate in detail the accounting challenges practitioners face, the options they have for addressing them, why they act as they do within an accounting system, and why they redesign accounting systems as they do to address their challenges. We have derived from the theory a series of step-by-step protocols researchers can follow to interpret research questions in terms of RCAT, refine the question to reflect a more complete understanding of setting under study, determine what additional theoretical and institutional knowledge will be required for a full analysis, import theories from other fields to integrate with RCAT, and search for related questions that are more causally and normatively important and better balance the conflicting goals of broad generality and deep understanding of a particular setting. We have also customized a GPT (the RCAT Analysis Machine) to make RCAT easier to work with. We have made the Machine available to all accounting scholars by posting it in OpenAI's GPT store, and provide all customization documents at https://blogs.cornell.edu/rcatcentral/ so that anyone can modify the customization for their needs. We encourage scholars to use these resources and tell us about how they did so and how they found them useful. We plan to report what we learn in a peer-reviewed journal.

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, Generative Prompt Transformers, Positive Accounting Theory, Accounting Ethics, Behavioral Game Theory, Financial Accounting, Management Accounting, Management Consulting, Auditing, Accounting Theory

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Robert J. and Lambert, Tamara and Lambert, Tamara and Peytcheva, Marietta, Role-Centered Accounting Theory (RCAT) & A Theory-Driven GPT: A Crowdsourcing Project for Scholars (September 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5441675 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5441675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
295
RANK
575,915
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies