Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simple Event Study Test for Volatility with an Application to Coup D'états

31 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2025

Henry Lahr

The Open University - Business School; University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research (CBR)

Yarema Okhrin

University of Augsburg

Tomasz Piotr Wisniewski

Open University, UK

Date Written: September 04, 2025

Abstract

Event studies in finance typically estimate the effects of corporate or macroeconomic events on mean returns of stocks or portfolios. While effects on mean returns have been studied extensively, a commonly accepted and widely used method for the volatility of returns does not currently exist, owing in part to implementation complexity. In this paper, we offer a simple solution to testing volatility in an event-study framework by reinterpreting the Breusch-Pagan heteroskedasticity test and Koenker's robust version. These tests are readily available through standard statistical software and can easily be implemented in spreadsheet software. A power analysis shows that these methods have a reasonable power to detect changes in the volatility of stock returns within a plausible range and that Koenker's test is robust to non-Gaussian returns. We apply these tests at the country level in an event study of coup d'états and find a significant increase in the volatility of stock index returns in a period of up to 15 days after an attempted or successful coup d'état.

Keywords: Volatility Event Study, Heteroskedasticity, Breusch-Pagan Test, Koenker’s Test, Coup Attempt, Power Analysis, Excess Volatility

JEL Classification: G14, C21, C25, D74

Suggested Citation:

Lahr, Henry and Okhrin, Yarema and Wisniewski, Tomasz Piotr, A Simple Event Study Test for Volatility with an Application to Coup D'états (September 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5444754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5444754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
196
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies