Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors Climate-Related Risk Disclosures: Evidence from Key Audit Matters

46 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2025

Max Goettsche

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Alexander Grommes

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Florian Habermann

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt - Ingolstadt School of Management; University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Stephan Küster

Free University of Berlin (FUB) - Department of Finance, Accounting and Taxation

Tobias Steindl

University of Regensburg

Date Written: September 08, 2025

Abstract

This study examines whether auditors consider climate-related risks as areas of heightened risk of material misstatement. By introducing Climate-Related Key Audit Matters (Climate KAMs) as a novel indicator, we provide the first large sample evidence on the disclosure of climate-related risks in Key Audit Matters (KAMs). Utilizing ClimateBERT, a state-of-the-art large language model, we systematically identify climate-related content within KAMs. We document a notable increase in Climate KAMs from about 8% in 2016 to more than 10.6% in 2023, while also finding substantial variation across countries, industries, and KAM topics. Our results demonstrate that auditors report on climate-related risks in almost all European countries. Across industries and KAM topics, climate-related risks are predominantly assessed in environmentally sensitive domains. Moreover, we examine key determinants of Climate KAM reporting. We show that the inclusion of Climate KAMs in auditors' reports is primarily driven by client fundamentals and climate-related risk exposure, rather than auditor characteristics, with the exception of auditors' climate expertise. While prior research shows that climate-related risks are associated with higher audit fees, we extend this evidence by demonstrating that auditors also explicitly consider climate-related risks as areas of heightened risk of material misstatement.

Keywords: Climate-Related Risk, Audit Risk, Extended Audit Reporting, Key Audit Matter, Natural Language Processing

Suggested Citation:

Goettsche, Max and Grommes, Alexander and Grommes, Alexander and Habermann, Florian and Küster, Stephan and Steindl, Tobias, Auditors Climate-Related Risk Disclosures: Evidence from Key Audit Matters (September 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5456878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5456878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
158
RANK
785,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies