Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal audit analysis in monitoring of public finances -the case of Kosovo

19 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Ylber Prekazi

AAB College

Date Written: June 27, 2021

Abstract

Purpose: Internal auditing has recently become a profession with great potential and each time is being developed and improved to extend its impact to a better management of public money. So, in recent years we see an evolution of function of internal audit as elsewhere in Kosovo, becoming an element of important public internal financial control. Methodology: Data sources from the accounts of one were used to carry out the work significant samples of budget organizations in the Republic of Kosovo as well as a questionnaire dedicated to this topic. Secondary data are also used as laws, regulations, guidelines, standards, codes of ethics, and best professional practices for internal audit, as well as the way budgets are spent in certain organizations budgets also reflected in the external audits that have been done over the years. Findings: This paper describes and analyzes the current state of internal audit in monitoring of public finances, looking at it from a normative point of view, implementing institutional capacity and to the concrete effects that this important function of the link gives to the view of public finance surveillance. Originality/Value: Aware that the internal audit function is not the only instrument of public finance oversight, above all it has an important role to play within the public sector organization and aims at advisory activity independent and objective in providing reasonable assurance, aimed at adding value and improving the functioning of the public sector entity, namely the budget organization. It also assists the subject in meeting the objectives, providing a systematic approach to discipline, evaluate and improve the effectiveness of management processes risk, control and governance in general.

Keywords: internal audit, oversight of public finances, budget organizations, public spending, Jel Classification M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Prekazi, Ylber and Prekazi, Ylber, Internal audit analysis in monitoring of public finances -the case of Kosovo (June 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5479087 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5479087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
76
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies