Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
TRANSPARENCY OF FINANCIAL REPORTS OF COMPANIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO

6 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Ylber Prekazi

AAB College

Date Written: April 30, 2022

Abstract

The financial reporting of any business entity wherever it operates is essential for the efficient management of that entity. Financial reporting in accordance with IFRS, international best practices and EU directives helps to create a more transparent business environment and enhances the credibility of other stakeholders. The financial reporting of companies in the Republic of Kosovo is important for a well-functioning market economy and provides some of the basic elements for a proper and sound financial system in Kosovo. The purpose of this research is to analyze whether the financial statements of companies in Kosovo are transparent, and each interested party can find their financial statements and other necessary information, as well as how they are prepared in accordance with IFRS/IAS requirements. Providing quality financial reporting helps users of that information to make important economic decisions. Financial information published and available to stakeholders in most cases to companies in Kosovo is considered not very reliable and not very transparent, as well as incomplete. The results of this research reflect the lack of transparency of financial information from companies in Kosovo, which is easily verified through the qualifications of the opinion of the auditor's report, clicks on the website, etc.

Keywords: Financial Information, Financial Reporting, Financial Statements, Transparency

Suggested Citation:

Prekazi, Ylber and Prekazi, Ylber, TRANSPARENCY OF FINANCIAL REPORTS OF COMPANIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO (April 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5487626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5487626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
66
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies