Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differences Between Basketball Players And 15-Year-Old Students in Some Anthropometric Features and Motor Skills

6 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2025

Diellza Shaqiri

AAB College

Fatmir Pireva

AAB College

Shemsedin Vehapi

AAB College

Nazim Myrtaj

AAB College

Ardita Pireva

University of Pristina

Besim Gashi

AAB College

Date Written: July 16, 2015

Abstract

The research was conducted on a sample of 100 young pupils aged 14-15, in two schools; the first one was an elementary school and the second was a basketball club from Priština. The purpose of the study was to prove the possible difference between the basketball players and the pupils in some anthropometric characteristics, basic motor skills and situational motor skills. In order to define these changes of anthropometric characteristics, 18 variables were applied for basic motor and situational motor skills. The survey data were processed with descriptive statistical methods and through a T-test. The results show that there are statistically significant differences and that there is a statistically significant difference between basketball players and pupils, where basketball players have better results in all tests of basic motor and situational motor skills. The results have shown that the regular engagement of children in basketball schools can enhance the skills and knowledge of young players and make a significant difference.

Keywords: T-test, Anthropometric Characteristics, Basic Motor Skills, Basketball Players, Students

Declaration of Interest

Yes

Ethics Approval

Yes

Funder Statement

Yes

Clinical Trial Registration

Yes

Suggested Citation:

Shaqiri, Diellza and Pireva, Fatmir and Pireva, Fatmir and Vehapi, Shemsedin and Myrtaj, Nazim and Pireva, Ardita and Pireva, Ardita and Gashi, Besim, Differences Between Basketball Players And 15-Year-Old Students in Some Anthropometric Features and Motor Skills (July 16, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5493929 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5493929
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
41
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Randomized Social Experiments eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies