Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Analysis of Perspectives of Students Who Have Physical Education and Game Teaching Related to Lesson Outcomes (Análisis De Las Perspectivas De Estudiantes De Educación Física Y La Enseñanza De Juego Y Su Relación Con Los Resultados de la Lección)

ENSAYOS. Revista de la Facultad de Educación de Albacete, Nº 32-2, 2017, (147-152)

Posted: 19 Sep 2025

Ayla Bicen

University of Kyrenia

Seçil Besim

Near East University

Shemsedin Vehapi

University of Pristina; AAB College

Date Written: May 12, 2017

Abstract

Having a healthy progress of students at the learning period at every age depends on a qualified educational program suitable for their development features. After the education that students take whether they have succeeded in aimed outcomes or not can be linked to the productivity of the progress period. The aim of this study is to evaluate the candidate teachers’ perspectives related to the outcomes of the lesson of “Physical Education and Game Teaching”. As well as this; whether succeeded in their aimed outcomes is a measurable situation but still the opinions and awareness of students for outcomes emphasizes the problem state of the research. The method of the research has been determined as quantitative. The data were acquired from the students who took the lesson “Physical Education and Game Teaching” at Classroom Teaching Department of the Near East University between 2015-2016 and 2016-2017. Field expert views were obtained by making 25 closed-ended questions by the researchers for the questionnaire. According to the views, the number of the items were edited again as altering them to 18 and were applied to the teacher candidates. During the data acquisition period; in 2015-2016, 72 volunteer students and in 2016-2017, 96 volunteer students have made the sampling of the research. The data gathered were interpreted with SPSS analyses.

Declaration of Interest

Yes

Ethics Approval

Yes

Funder Statement

Yes

Clinical Trial Registration

Yes

Suggested Citation:

Bicen, Ayla and Besim, Seçil and Vehapi, Shemsedin, The Analysis of Perspectives of Students Who Have Physical Education and Game Teaching Related to Lesson Outcomes (Análisis De Las Perspectivas De Estudiantes De Educación Física Y La Enseñanza De Juego Y Su Relación Con Los Resultados de la Lección) (May 12, 2017). ENSAYOS. Revista de la Facultad de Educación de Albacete, Nº 32-2, 2017, (147-152), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5502118
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
24
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sports Medicine eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies