Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corrupt Spending on Resource Adjustment Costs and Cost Stickiness

47 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2025

Kyriacos Kyriacou

Brunel University London - Economics and Finance

Siming Liu

Brunel University London - Economics and Finance

Bryan Mase

Brunel University London - Economics and Finance

Date Written: August 30, 2025

Abstract

Existing research finds that the asymmetric response of costs to changes in demand (cost stickiness) is determined by firm characteristics that result in firms either incurring adjustment costs when they cut resources, or retaining unutilized resources due to agency incentives. Instead, we propose that firms might also be proactive in seeking to alleviate adjustment costs, which we test by investigating the impact of Chinese firms' elevated spending on facilitation payments on cost stickiness. Such spending, which we classify as corrupt spending, reduces firms' adjustment costs by helping them acquire favors and special treatment, gain access to resources and evade regulatory enforcement. Using a stochastic frontier analysis to identify firms' corrupt spending from their spending on facilitation payments, we conduct panel estimation to show that such spending is associated with a significant reduction in firms' cost stickiness. Additionally, this corrupt-spending effect is stronger for the non-state-owned enterprises that lack political connections and therefore rely more heavily on this spending. This channel is confirmed by results that distinguish firms by their asset and employee intensity. Additionally, while firms' default risk and managerial ability are significant contributory influences to asymmetric cost behavior, the benefit that firms derive from their corrupt spending persists. Our results are economically meaningful, and are robust to several additional tests, including the use of alternative corruption estimates, propensity score matching and instrumental variable estimation. Corrupt spending is an important instrument used by firms to facilitate resource adjustment and generate a significant and meaningful reduction in cost stickiness.

Keywords: Cost Behavior, Cost Stickiness, Adjustment Costs, Facilitation Payments, Corrupt Spending, State- Owned Enterprises

Declaration of Interest

No conflicting interest.

Suggested Citation:

Kyriacou, Kyriacos and Liu, Siming and Mase, Bryan,
The Impact of Corrupt Spending on Resource Adjustment Costs and Cost Stickiness
(August 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5507299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5507299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
105
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies