Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From crisis to confidence: The essential but neglected role of direct replication

41 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2025

Murray R. Lindsay

University of Lethbridge - Faculty of Management

Abstract

Across the sciences, concerns about reproducibility have intensified; yet, Behavioural Management Accounting and Control (BMAC) has largely not engaged, despite sharing similar vulnerabilities, such as low statistical power, publication bias, questionable research practices, weak theory for complex socio-psychological processes, and a predominance of observational designs. These conditions make isolated studies rarely decisive and greatly increase the risk of false positives and unstable effect estimates. Although conceptual replication is often prioritized, it cannot substitute for direct replication, which establishes whether an effect exists and enables meta-analytic estimation of its magnitude. Instead, both approaches must be integrated into a research program to avoid the illusion of replication. To foster a balance between replication and innovation, the paper introduces a framework for selecting high-value direct replication targets. Additionally, recommendations are provided for addressing common objections, including resource constraints and the perceived lack of novelty in direct replication. Without direct replication, BMAC risks theoretical fragmentation, biased estimates, and an insecure empirical foundation for theory development.

Keywords: replication crisis, direct replication, conceptual replication, false positives, statistical power, weak theory

Suggested Citation:

Lindsay, Murray, From crisis to confidence: The essential but neglected role of direct replication. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5508955 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5508955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
188 References
BMAC can-and should-follow suit. Detailed guidance is now available to support researchers in conducting rigorous and informative replication studies, offering clear pathways for advancing cumulative science Posted: 2022
; Bonett , Brandt
Köhler and Cortina Posted: 1993
References
Enduring research rests on confirmed effects: innovate to discover, replicate to reduce uncertainty. Only then is knowledge innovative, credible, and truly cumulative
H Aguinis , W F Cascio , R S Ramani
Science's reproducibility and replicability crisis: International business is not immune
J Int Bus Stud , volume 48 , p. 653 - 663 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
87
188 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies