Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Board Co-Option Affect Corporate Tax Avoidance?

The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2025

Muhammad Jahangir Ali

La Trobe University, Department of Accounting, Data Analytics, Economics and Finance

Ghasan Baghdadi

La Trobe University - La Trobe Business School - Department of Finance

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Date Written: September 22, 2025

Abstract

Our study examines the association between board co-option and corporate tax avoidance using a large sample of publicly listed firms in the United States (U.S.) during the period 1997-2019. We find that a positive relationship exists between co-opted directors (those who join a board after the Chief Executive Officer [CEO] takes office) and corporate tax avoidance. This result remains consistent when we utilize exogenous CEO turnover in the difference-indifferences framework. Our results are more pronounced in a subsample of firms exposed to an environment with a lower level of monitoring. We also show that, through a CEO's equity portfolio's sensitivity to changes in stock return volatility, co-option affects tax-avoidance practices within a firm. Our final test reveals that tax avoidance is not a valuecreating activity which occurs when managers are poorly monitored. Our study's findings contribute to the debate on the relative costs and benefits of board co-option and have important implications for regulators, policymakers, investors, and firms.

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Muhammad Jahangir and Baghdadi, Ghasan and Bose, Sudipta, Does Board Co-Option Affect Corporate Tax Avoidance? (September 22, 2025). The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5521158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5521158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies