Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bigger Data + Tinier Results = The Wrong Direction

26 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2025

John R. M. Hand

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: September 25, 2025

Abstract

I put forward and provide support for the proposition that empirical accounting research has been steadily moving in the wrong direction for the past 30 years.  Via a random sample of 2 papers per year 1995-2024 from each of JAE, JAR, RAST and TAR, I build on Johannesson, Ohlson and Zhai (RAST 2024) by taking a time-series approach to assessing how the explanatory power of key independent variables (KIVs) has changed over time, and exploring why this has happened.  My central finding is that the explanatory power of the typical KIV in mainly regression-based accounting research papers has fallen ≈ 48X from 1.8% in 1995 to 0.04% in 2024.  The statistical drivers of the evisceration of KIV explanatory power into tinier and tinier results are that while the number of observations used in studies has risen ≈ 60X since 1995, the mean absolute t-statistic on a KIV has remained unchanged at 3.1.  As to why KIV explanatory power has fallen, I find that the decline is negatively related to two proxies for authors taking their eyes off the top of the economic ocean and behaviorally over-focusing on krill-level details: The number of footnotes in a paper, and the number of pages of appendices.  I conclude that to the degree a KIV’s incremental adjusted R2 reflects on its economic value-relevance, unless the trend towards bigger data but tinier results halts and/or reverses, empirical accounting research risks becoming value-relevant only to other accounting academics, and value-irrelevant to executives, businesses, standard setters, and MBA and undergraduate/MAC students.  With this in mind, I present a wide-ranging set of changes that could be made to empirical accounting research, if change is warranted, most deliberately normative in nature.

Keywords: Larger Datasets, Tinier Results, T-Statistics, Incremental Adjusted R 2, Krill Details

Suggested Citation:

Hand, John R. M., Bigger Data + Tinier Results = The Wrong Direction (September 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5530198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5530198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
181
RANK
724,228
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies