Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extracting the Structure of Press Releases for Predicting Earnings Announcement Returns

9 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Yuntao Wu

University of Toronto

Mert Akin

University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada

Charles Martineau

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management and UTSC Management

Vincent Gregoire

HEC Montreal - Department of Finance

Andreas Veneris

University of Toronto - Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Department of Computer Science; University of Toronto - Munk School of Global Affairs and Public Policy

Date Written: September 27, 2025

Abstract

We examine how textual features in earnings press releases predict stock returns on earnings announcement days. Using over 138,000 press releases from 2005 to 2023, we compare traditional bag-of-words and BERT-based embeddings. We find that press release content (soft information) is as informative as earnings surprise (hard information), with FinBERT yielding the highest predictive power. Combining models enhances explanatory strength and interpretability of the content of press releases. Stock prices fully reflect the content of press releases at market open. If press releases are leaked, it offers predictive advantage. Topic analysis reveals self-serving bias in managerial narratives. Our framework supports real-time return prediction through the integration of online learning, provides interpretability and reveals the nuanced role of language in price formation.

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Yuntao and Akin, Mert and Martineau, Charles and Gregoire, Vincent and Veneris, Andreas, Extracting the Structure of Press Releases for Predicting Earnings Announcement Returns (September 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5537559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5537559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies