Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Gender Diversity Reforms and Corporate Environmental and Social Misconduct

50 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Tinghua Duan

EDHEC Business School

Siyue Guo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Oskar Kowalewski

IESEG School of Management; LEM - CNRS 9221; Polish Academy of Sciences

Date Written: October 08, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines whether the increase in female representation on corporate boards serves as an effective monitor of environmental and social (E&S) misconduct. Using the staggered adoption of board gender diversity reforms in the U.S., we find that a greater presence of women on boards is associated with a decrease in E&S misconduct. This effect is primarily driven by female non-executive directors, particularly those who are not overextended. Moreover, greater female representation on E&S committees is linked to lower levels of E&S misconduct. Importantly, all these effects are more pronounced for social misconduct than for environmental misconduct, highlighting the emphasis that female directors place on addressing social issues.

Keywords: gender diversity reforms, misconducts, law, enforcement G34, G38, J16, K00, K42

Suggested Citation:

Duan, Tinghua and Guo, Siyue and Kowalewski, Oskar, Board Gender Diversity Reforms and Corporate Environmental and Social Misconduct (October 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5579170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5579170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
106
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies