Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuing External Costs: From Theory to Practice - Implications for Full Cost Environmental Accounting

Posted: 25 Jun 2004

Nicolas Antheaume

University of Nantes

Abstract

This article presents an experiment in full cost accounting applied to the case of an industrial process. It aims at exploring the difficulties of putting full cost accounting into practice. Its specific contribution to the growing body of experiments in full cost accounting is that it attempts to compare exactly what impacts can be translated into financial information with the impacts that are being left out. Amongst other things, we provide a quantitative figure of what is monetised in the experiment, expressed as a percentage of what should be monetized if all negative external effects were to be taken into account. The experiment uses three different external cost evaluation methods. The most comprehensive method monetises less than 10% of the flows of the industrial process studied. According to the method used and the assumptions made, external costs vary by a factor of more than 1 to 12 000 per unit of product. The paper then discusses what can be learnt by comparing the range of results obtained with each method and suggests directions for future research.

Keywords: Environmental Accounting, Full Cost Accounting, External Costs, Environmental Accounting, Environmental Costs

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Antheaume, Nicolas, Valuing External Costs: From Theory to Practice - Implications for Full Cost Environmental Accounting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=558522
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,631
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies