Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investing in Your Own Equity: Effects of Fair Value Accounting and Comprehensive Income Recognition on Earnings and Price Volatility

50 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2004

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Mark W. Nelson

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Steve Smith

Brigham Young University

Date Written: July 20, 2004

Abstract

Firms can effectively take long or short positions on their own equity by holding treasury shares, contributing their shares to their pension fund, write put or call options on their stock, compensate employees with stock options, or invest in other entities (e.g., other firms, stock indexes) that hold shares of their stock. In each of these circumstances, fair value accounting methods can allow firms to report on these "self-generated" unrealized gains or losses ("UGLs").

In this paper we present a model and experimental evidence indicating that, if investors attend to unrealized gains and losses (UGLs) associated with a firm's own equity, equity price changes reflect through subsequent periods to create high volatility and predictable autocorrelations in price. Our results provide evidence that the reflection-induced volatility is determined by an interaction between the extent of the self-investment and the prominence of the self-generated UGLs on the primary reporting statement (with comprehensive income performance statements providing high prominence).

Keywords: Fair-value accounting, comprehensive income, functional fixation, market efficiency, experiments

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Robert J. and Nelson, Mark W. and Smith, Steven D., Investing in Your Own Equity: Effects of Fair Value Accounting and Comprehensive Income Recognition on Earnings and Price Volatility (July 20, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=566801 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.566801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
APB Opinion No. 18: The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock Posted: 1971
APB Opinion No. 25: Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees Posted: 1972
Accounting Standards Board
Financial Reporting Standard , issue 17 Posted: 1999
A Bary
Buying time again Posted: 2004-05-31
Load more
4 Citations
Vera Palea , Renato Maino
Fair Value Measurement for Private Equities: A Plus or a Minus for Stakeholders?
CAREFIN Research Paper No. 01/2012 · 35 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2012 · Last revised: 6 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 513
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
ROBERT LIBBY , MARK W. NELSON , JAMES E. HUNTON
Retracted: Recognition v. Disclosure, Auditor Tolerance for Misstatement, and the Reliability of Stock-Compensation and Lease Information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 533 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Mark W. Nelson , William B. Tayler
Information Pursuit in Financial-Statement Analysis: Effects of Choice, Effort, and Disaggregation
Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 32-06 · 51 Pages · Posted: 2 Jan 2006 · Downloads: 883
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Irene Mosca , Robert Wright
Is Personality Endogenous? Evidence from Ireland
IZA Discussion Paper No. 11414 · 33 Pages · Posted: 2 Apr 2018 · Last revised: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 64
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,804
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,283
RANK
21,889
4 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies