Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Alternative Methods of Accounting for Employee Stock Options

52 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2004

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Ken V. Peasnell

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Shu Yeh

National Taiwan University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 29, 2004

Abstract

We use the residual income valuation framework to compare the equity valuation implications of four approaches to employee stock options (ESOs) accounting proposed by regulators: APB 25 "recognize nothing", SFAS 123 preferred "recognize ESO expense", FASB Exposure Draft "recognize and expense ESO asset" and "recognize ESO asset and ESO liability". Our theoretical analysis shows that only a version that involves grant date recognition of an asset and a liability, and subsequent marking-to-market of the liability, results in accounting numbers that accurately reflect the dilution effects of ESOs on current shareholder value. The other accounting methods lead to overstatement of current equity value. Out-of-sample and in-sample empirical tests are used to assess value relevance of the four accounting methods. The out-of-sample tests compare contemporaneous equity market value predictions based on each of the four methods. The in-sample tests compare the model explanatory power from estimating equations relating to each of the four accounting methods. The out-of-sample tests indicate the method with grant date asset and liability recognition has the lowest prediction errors, followed by the Exposure Draft method, the SFAS 123 method, and the APB 25 method. Findings from the in-sample tests are largely consistent with our theoretical expectations and provide support for the grant date recognition of an ESO asset and liability.

Keywords: Employee stock options, value relevance

JEL Classification: G12, G13, M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Landsman, Wayne R. and Peasnell, Kenneth V. and Pope, Peter F. and Yeh, Shu, The Value Relevance of Alternative Methods of Accounting for Employee Stock Options (July 29, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=570762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.570762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Aboody
Market Valuation of Employee Stock Options
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 357 - 391 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
SFAS No. 123 Stock-Based Employee Compensation and Equity Market Values
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Opinion No. 25: Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Accounting Principles Board Posted: 1972
Mary E. Barth , William H. Beaver , John R. M. Hand , Wayne R. Landsman
Accruals, Cash Flow and Equity Values
Pages: 44 Posted: 8 Mar 1999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
797
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,758
RANK
71,381
5 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies