Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research Design Issues and Related Inference Problems Underlying Tests of the Market Pricing of Accounting Information

61 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2004

Arthur G. Kraft

City University London - Cass Business School

Andrew J. Leone

Northwestern University

Charles E. Wasley

Simon School, University of Rochester

Date Written: March 26, 2004

Abstract

Numerous accounting studies conduct tests of the market pricing of accounting information. The purpose of this study is to both highlight and quantify the consequences of using of ex-post information to form trading strategies based on accounting numbers and to document the importance of performing robustness tests (such as a careful analysis of outliers), when testing economic or behavioral explanations for apparent accounting-related (mis)pricing. To illustrate the importance of these issues we focus on the accrual anomaly (see Sloan 1996). We show that correcting for common sample selection biases not only reduces the magnitude of the abnormal returns to the hedge portfolio, but also dramatically alters the abnormal returns attributable to the high and low accrual portfolios. After eliminating outliers we document an inverted U-shaped relation between buy-and-hold abnormal returns and accruals. This result, combined with a detailed examination of both the truncated sample and the outliers, leads us to conclude that it is neither investors' inability to process accounting information (Sloan 1996) nor their excessive optimism with respect to glamour stocks (Desai, et al 2004) that explains the accrual and operating cash flow anomalies.

JEL Classification: M41, M43, G12, G14, C10

Suggested Citation:

Kraft, Arthur Gerald and Leone, Andrew J. and Wasley, Charles E., Research Design Issues and Related Inference Problems Underlying Tests of the Market Pricing of Accounting Information (March 26, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=576183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.576183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
R Ball , S Kothari , J Shanken
Problems in measuring portfolio performance: An application to contrarian investment strategies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 38 , p. 79 - 107 Posted: 1995
Crossref
D Belsley , E Kuh , R Welsh
Regression Diagnostics: Identifying Influential Data and Sources of Collinearity Posted: 1980
Crossref
D Beneish , M Vargus
Insider trading, earnings quality and accrual mispricing
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 755 - 792 Posted: 2002
Crossref
V Bernard , J Thomas
Post-earnings-announcement drift: delayed price response or risk premium?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 1 - 48 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,036
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,373
RANK
49,848
13 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices

By Scott A. Richardson, Richard G. Sloan, ...

Accrued Earnings and Growth: Implications for Earnings Persistence and Market Mispricing

By Patricia M. Fairfield, Scott Whisenant, ...

Insider Trading, Earnings Quality, and Accrual Mispricing

By Mark E. Vargus and Messod D. Beneish

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies