Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are MBA Students a Good Proxy for Non-Professional Investors?

47 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2004

W. Brooke Elliott

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Frank D. Hodge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

S. Jane (Kennedy) Jollineau

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Maarten Pronk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2006

Abstract

We investigate a key assumption underlying much of the experimental research in financial accounting that graduate business students are a good proxy for non-professional investors. To conduct our investigation, we categorize recent experimental studies in financial accounting based on the relative level of integrative complexity inherent in each study's task. We then conduct experiments using two tasks, one that is relatively low in integrative complexity and one that is relatively high in integrative complexity, and compare the responses of two groups of MBA students and non-professional investors.

Our results suggest that using MBA students as a proxy for non-professional investors is a valid methodological choice, provided researchers give careful consideration to aligning a task's integrative complexity with the appropriate level of MBA student. MBA students who have completed their core MBA courses and are enrolled in or have completed a financial statement analysis course are a good proxy for non-professional investors in tasks that are relatively low in integrative complexity. Though less definitive, the majority of our tests also suggest that these students are a good proxy for non-professional investors in tasks that are relatively high in integrative complexity. However, care must be taken when using students in the first-year core financial accounting course. In tasks that are relatively low in integrative complexity, these students perform similarly to non-professional investors except when they are asked to make an investment decision. In tasks that are relatively high in integrative complexity, these students acquire information similarly to non-professional investors, but they do not appear to integrate the information in a similar manner.

Keywords: sophistication, behavioral research in accounting, stock options

JEL Classification: M41, C91

Suggested Citation:

Elliott, W. Brooke and Hodge, Frank Douglas and Kennedy Jollineau, S. Jane and Pronk, Maarten, Are MBA Students a Good Proxy for Non-Professional Investors? (July 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=589521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.589521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Bloomfield , R Libby
Market reactions to differentially available information in the laboratory
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 183 - 207 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R ________ , M Libby , Nelson
Confidence and the welfare of less-informed investors
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 24 , issue 8 , p. 623 - 647 Posted: 1999
T ________ , Wilks
Disclosure effects in the laboratory: Liquidity, depth, and the cost of capital
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , p. 13 - 42 Posted: 2000-01
R ________ , M Libby , Nelson
Do investors overrely on old elements of the earnings time series?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,176
RANK
234,984
88 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies