Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Method Choice and Motives for Share Repurchases

23 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2004

Susan W. Eldridge

University of NE at Omaha

Date Written: September 2004

Abstract

Firms can choose to account for repurchased shares using either the retirement method or the cost method. Using logit regression, I find that firms' choice of accounting method for repurchased shares is strongly influenced by whether they have been long-time users of the cost method. Test results indicate that the accounting method currently being used provides no information about the motives for recent repurchase transactions and that the permanent versus temporary nature of the repurchase distribution is not clearly reflected by the method in use.

Keywords: share repurchases, accounting method choice

JEL Classification: G35, M4

Suggested Citation:

Eldridge, Susan W., Accounting Method Choice and Motives for Share Repurchases (September 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=591223 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.591223
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
APB Opinion No. 6 Status of Accounting Research Bulletins Posted: 1965
Model Corporation Business Act Posted: 2003
M E Barth , R Kasznik
Share repurchases and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 211 - 241 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D A Bens , V Nagar , D J Skinner , M H F Wong
Employee stock options, EPS dilution, and stock repurchases
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 51 - 90 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,517
RANK
190,292
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

Dividends, Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis

By Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely

Payout Policy in the 21st Century

By Alon Brav, John R. Graham, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies