Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inferring Analysts' Information About Changes in Earnings Components*

31 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2004

David A. Guenther

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Philip B. Shane

College of William & Mary - Raymond A. Mason School of Business

David P. Weber

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 15 September 2004

Abstract

This paper develops a technique to infer the accuracy of analysts' forecasts of different components of earnings when databases contain forecasts of only bottom line (or limited component) earnings forecasts. We focus our analysis on three components - sales, operating profit percentage, and effective tax rates - and find that larger changes in all three components are associated with larger contemporaneous forecast errors, but that the change in operating profit percentage appears to be the most difficult to forecast. This difficulty in forecasting changes in the operating profit percentage appears to be concentrated in those observations in which net income decreases from the prior year.

Keywords: analysts, earnings, forecasts, components, accuracy

JEL Classification: M41, C53, G10, G20

Suggested Citation:

Guenther, David A. and Shane, Philip B. and Weber, David P., Inferring Analysts' Information About Changes in Earnings Components* (15 September 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=591701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.591701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock price
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Ali , A Klein , J Rosenfeld
Analysts' use of information about permanent and transitory earnings components in forecasting annual EPS
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 1992-01
L Brown , R Hagerman , P Griffin , M Zmijewski
Security analyst superiority relative to univariate time series models in forecasting quarterly earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 87 Posted: 1987
Crossref
L D Brown , G D Richardson , S J Schwager
An information interpretation of financial analyst superiority in forecasting earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 67 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,427
RANK
339,258
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices

By Scott A. Richardson, Richard G. Sloan, ...

Accrued Earnings and Growth: Implications for Earnings Persistence and Market Mispricing

By Patricia M. Fairfield, Scott Whisenant, ...

Insider Trading, Earnings Quality, and Accrual Mispricing

By Mark E. Vargus and Messod D. Beneish

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies