Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Accounting-Method Choices on Subjective Performance-Measure Weighting: Experimental Evidence on Precision and Error Covariance

55 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2005

Ranjani Krishnan

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Joan L. Luft

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Michael D. Shields

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: February 2005

Abstract

Performance-measure weights for incentive compensation are often determined subjectively. Determining these weights is a cognitively difficult task, and archival research shows that observed performance-measure weights are only partially consistent with the predictions of agency theory. Ittner, Larcker and Meyer (2003) have concluded that psychology theory can help to explain such inconsistencies. In an experimental setting based on Feltham and Xie (1994), we use psychology theories of reasoning to predict distinctive patterns of similarity and difference between optimal and actual subjective performance-measure weights. The following predictions are supported. First, most individuals in our setting use the measures' error variance (precision) and error covariance to determine performance-measure weights. Second, directional errors in the use of these measurement attributes are relatively frequent, resulting in a mean under-reaction to the accounting-method change. Third, individuals seem insufficiently aware that a change in the accounting for one measure has spillover effects on the optimal weighting of the other measure in a two-measure incentive system, and in consequence, they make performance-measure weighting choices that are likely to result in misallocations of agent effort.

Keywords: Decision performance, incentive compensation, mental models, performance measures

JEL Classification: M40, C91, D82, J33, M46

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Ranjani and Luft, Joan and Shields, Michael D., Effects of Accounting-Method Choices on Subjective Performance-Measure Weighting: Experimental Evidence on Precision and Error Covariance (February 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=668961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.668961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
T Atkinson , R Kaplan , S M Young
Management Accounting Posted: 2004
G Baker , R Gibbons , K J Murphy
Subjective performance measures in optimal incentive contracts
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , p. 1124 - 1156 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R D Banker , S M Datar
Sensitivity, precision, and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R Banker , G Potter , D Srinivasan
An empirical investigation of an incentive plan that includes nonfinancial performance measures
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 92 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
JAMES R. FREDERICKSON , WILLIAM WALLER
Carrot or Stick? Contract Frame and Use of Decision‐Influencing Information in a Principal‐Agent Setting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 709 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Alex Woods
Subjective Adjustments to Objective Performance Measures
51 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2009 · Downloads: 325
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christian Mastilak , Linda J. Matuszewski , Fabienne Miller , Alex Woods
Evaluating Conflicting Performance on Driver and Outcome Measures: The Effect of Strategy Maps
47 Pages · Posted: 16 Aug 2010 · Last revised: 4 Jun 2012 · Downloads: 141
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hayden Gunnell , Gary Hecht , William B. Tayler , Kristy L. Towry
Timing is Everything: Congruence, Controllability, and Performance Measure Weighting
41 Pages · Posted: 21 Aug 2012 · Last revised: 22 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 311
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,568
RANK
100,801
7 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Performance Measure Properties and Incentives

By Michael Gibbs, Kenneth A. Merchant, ...

Relational Contracts and Job Design

By Anja Schöttner

Effects of Subordinate Likeability and Balanced Scorecard Format on Permformance-Related Judgments

By Steven E. Kaplan, Michael J. Petersen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies