Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Stellar Hedge Fund Performance for Real?

50 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2005

Robert Kosowski

Imperial College Business School; CEPR (Centre for Economic Policy Research)

Narayan Y. Naik

London Business School - Institute of Finance and Accounting

Melvyn Teo

Singapore Management University - Lee Kong Chian School of Business

Date Written: February 2005

Abstract

We apply a robust bootstrap to evaluate the performance of a large universe of hedge funds. Our bootstrap estimates indicate that the performance of the top hedge funds cannot be attributed to chance alone. This is true even after adjusting for back fill bias, serial correlation, and structural breaks. Also, we find that hedge fund alpha differences persist over three year horizons. However, an investment strategy designed around this will run into difficulties as the persistence is often confined to small funds that are effectively closed to new inflows. Moreover, Bayesian estimates suggest that standard alphas may be overestimated by 41% for the average top fund.

Keywords: Hedge funds, bootstrap, alpha, persistence

JEL Classification: G10, G19

Suggested Citation:

Kosowski, Robert and Naik, Narayan Y. and Teo, Melvyn, Is Stellar Hedge Fund Performance for Real? (February 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=675765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.675765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
E Andreou , E Ghysels
Tests for breaks in the conditional co-movements of asset returns Posted: 2002
Statistica Sinica, forthcoming
Crossref
E Andreou , E Ghysels
Detecting multiple breaks in …nancial market volatility dynamics
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 17 , p. 579 - 600 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D W K Andrews , J Y Kim
End-of-sample cointegration breakdown tests. Cowles Foundation Discussion Papers 1404 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,152
RANK
174,026
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University Lee Kong Chian School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Risk Taking by Mutual Funds as a Response to Incentives

By Judith A. Chevalier and Glenn Ellison

Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets

By Richard C. Green and Jonathan Berk

Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets

By Richard C. Green and Jonathan Berk

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies