Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Cost of Asymmetric Incentive Fees

32 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2005

Danilo Drago

SDA Bocconi

Valter Lazzari

LIUC Università Cattaneo; SDA Bocconi School of Management

Marco A. Navone

Finance Discipline Group - UTS Business School; Bocconi University - CAREFIN - Centre for Applied Research in Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 2005

Abstract

In this paper using a unique database of mutual funds that charge asymmetric incentive fees we evaluate the ex ante cost of these variable compensations as the premium of a spread option on the active return of the fund. We find that the cost of the asymmetric fee can be very high and that it's very difficult for the typical to forecast this cost looking at the structure of the fee or at the tracking error of the fund without a formal evaluation technique. We also find out that the value of the fee is highly sensible to market conditions an can vary through time even without changes in the fee structure or in the fund investment policy. Given these evidences we conclude that the ex ante cost of the fee should be included in the information to prospective investors and should be considered in the fund performance evaluation.

Keywords: Mutual funds, incentive fees, asymmetric compensation

JEL Classification: G18, G23

Suggested Citation:

Drago, Danilo and Lazzari, Valter and Navone, Marco A., The Real Cost of Asymmetric Incentive Fees (January 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=677381 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.677381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Admati , P Pfeiderer
Does It All Add Up? Benchmarks and the Compensation of Active Portfolio Managers
Journal of Business , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 350 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Assogestioni
Guida Italiana al risparmio gestito Posted: 2004
D Blitz , A Hottinga
Tracking error allocation
Journal of Portfolio Management , p. 19 - 25 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Brenner , M G Subrahmanyam
A Simple Approach to Options Valuation and Hedging in the Black-Scholes model
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 25 - 28 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,880
RANK
314,223
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Risk Taking by Mutual Funds as a Response to Incentives

By Judith A. Chevalier and Glenn Ellison

Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets

By Richard C. Green and Jonathan Berk

Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets

By Richard C. Green and Jonathan Berk

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies