Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Affine-Quadratic Jump-Diffusion Term Structure Models

41 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2005 Last revised: 21 Feb 2013

George J. Jiang

Washington State University

Shu Yan

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 15, 2005

Abstract

In this paper, we propose a unifying affine-quadratic jump-diffusion framework for the term structure dynamics. The model incorporates both stochastic volatility and random jumps in the short rate process. In particular, we extend the existing models by explicitly modeling the jump intensity as a stochastic process. Using information from the treasury futures market, a GMM estimation approach is proposed for the risk-neutral process. A distinguishing feature of the approach is that the latent state variables are obtained, together with the model parameter estimates. The estimated latent state variables, namely the stochastic volatility and stochastic jump intensity, allow us to investigate the premia of various risk factors as well as underlying economic variables driving the term structure dynamics. Our empirical results suggest that the stochastic jump intensity significantly improves the model fit to the term structure dynamics. We identify a jump intensity negatively correlated with interest rate changes, a higher probability of positive jump than negative jump, and an on average larger size of negative jump than positive jump. We document a significant time-varying risk premium that is positively correlated with volatility.

Keywords: Affine, Quadratic, Jump-Diffusions, Term Structure, GMM

JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, George and Yan, Shu, Affine-Quadratic Jump-Diffusion Term Structure Models (March 15, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=687423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.687423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Chang Ahn , Howard E Mo , Thompson
Jump-Diffusion Processes and the Term Structure of Interest Rates
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , p. 155 - 174 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Dong-Hyun Ahn , Robert F Dittmar , A Ronald Gallant
Quadratic Term Structure Models: Theory and Evidence
Review of Financial Studies , volume 15 , p. 243 - 288 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Dong-Hyun Ahn , Robert F Dittmar , A Ronald Gallant , Bin Gao
Purebred or Hybrid?: Reproducing the Volatility in Terms Structure Dynamics
Journal of Econometrics , volume 116 , p. 147 - 180 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Torben Andersen , B Sorensen
GMM Estimation of A Stochastic Volatility Model: A Monte Carlo Study
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 14 , p. 328 - 352 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,323
RANK
429,664
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Specification Analysis of Affine Term Structure Models

By Qiang Dai and Kenneth J. Singleton

Specification Analysis of Affine Term Structure Models

By Qiang Dai and Kenneth J. Singleton

A No-Arbitrage Vector Autoregression of Term Structure Dynamics with Macroeconomic and Latent Variables

By Andrew Ang and Monika Piazzesi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies