Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Sectional Field Studies in Management Accounting Research - Closing the Gaps between Surveys and Case Studies

39 Pages Posted: 12 May 2005

Anne M. Lillis

University of Melbourne

Julia Mundy

University of Greenwich

Abstract

While empirical researchers in management accounting frequently address overlapping research issues using a variety of methods, there is little evidence of productive dialogue addressing the uncertainties and ambiguities raised within each stream of research. For example, survey researchers frequently call for deeper field-based insights into conflicting or ambiguous findings. Case study researchers convey rich organizational stories of management accounting in context. However, these field-based findings are rarely used to resolve the ambiguity in construct definition, measurement and inter-relationships that plague our empirical research bases. In this paper we seek to regenerate interest in a method that has been implemented in the past to promote productive field-based dialogue on issues related to complex constructs and their interrelationships. The method is best illustrated by the cross-sectional field study approach adopted by Merchant and Manzoni (1989) to study budget target achievability. By considering the Merchant and Manzoni study as well as two other examples (Bruns and McKinnon (1993) and Abernethy and Lillis (1995)) we identify the range of questions suited to this method and how the method contributes significant insights to the management accounting literature. We also articulate the design attributes of cross-sectional field studies by explicitly linking the rationale for these studies with the complexity of the phenomenon under study, sampling logic, instrument design and data analysis protocols. The insights produced from the relatively few published studies using a cross-sectional field study method suggest that opportunities for the application of this method may be underexploited.

Keywords: field studies, qualitative analysis, research methods

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Lillis, Anne and Mundy, Julia, Cross-Sectional Field Studies in Management Accounting Research - Closing the Gaps between Surveys and Case Studies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=719841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M A Abernethy , M Horne , A M Lillis , M Malina , F Selto
Forthcoming. A multi-method approach to building causal performance maps from expert knowledge
Management Accounting Research Posted: 2005
Crossref
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control system design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
Crossref
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and organizations: Realizing the richness of field research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
S W Anderson
A framework for sssessing cost management system changes: The case of activity based Costing implementation at General Motors, 1986-1993
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 1995
Load more
3 Citations
Basil P. Tucker , Lee D. Parker
Researcher Perceptions and Choices of Interview Media: The Case of Accounting Research
Accounting & Finance, Vol. 59, Issue 3, pp. 1489-1517, 2019 · 29 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hassan Yazdifar , Davood Askarany , Danture Wickramasinghe , Ahmad Nasseri , Ashraful Alam
The Diffusion of Management Accounting Innovations in Dependent (Subsidiary) Organizations and MNCs
The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 54, No. 1 (2019), The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper · 42 Pages · Posted: 2 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 81
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anne Lillis , Mary A. Malina , Julia Mundy
The role of subjectivity in mitigating incentive contracting risks
The Accounting Review <a href=" https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2017-0652"> https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2017-0652</a> · 52 Pages · Posted: 15 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 222
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,004
RANK
36,747
3 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Towards a More Comprehensive Understanding of the Roles of Management Accountants

By Sean M. Byrne and Bernard Pierce

Perceptions of Management Accounting Services

By Kenton B. Walker, Gary Fleischman, ...

Business Unit Controller Involvement in Management: An Empirical Study in the Netherlands

By J.a. Ten Rouwelaar, Jan Bots, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies