Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Condominium Townhouse Investment (CTI): A Case for Accounting Courses Where Cases Are Not the Emphasis Accounting Perspectives. Vol. 11(4): 323-332, 2012.

Accounting Perspectives. Vol. 11(4): 323-332, 2012.

12 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2005 Last revised: 10 Oct 2023

Gulraze Wakil

Toronto Metropolitan University- School of Accounting and Finance

Karin A. Petruska

Youngstown State University

Date Written: April 1, 2011

Abstract

This accounting case/instructional aid describes methods and strategies for students new to the case method and an actual case to work on. The objectives of this aid are: 1) to present a detailed approach that a student new to the case method can use for working on cases, independent of the need for instructor aid during class time; 2) to instill into the student that accounting is not always about arriving at a final number, but includes many interesting situations that require a variety of skills from an accountant; and 3) to provide a small real-life actual case for students to work on.

The Condominium Townhouse Investment case (CTI) uses introductory management accounting concepts and analysis to introduce students to the case method of learning. The main concepts reinforced are relevant costs and benefits; and opportunity and sunk costs. The student is not only asked to identify these concepts, but to apply them in a decision on whether to rent out or sell a residential property. This decision is something students would be interested in and can relate to personally, because they themselves will eventually be involved in home ownership decisions. Nevertheless, the case focuses on real estate as an investment. The consequences of the alternative decisions are both monetary and qualitative, that require managerial and financial analysis to evaluate.

Keywords: Instructional case, relevant costs, sunk costs, opportunity costs, real estate

JEL Classification: A20, M49

Suggested Citation:

Wakil, Gulraze and Petruska, Karin A., Condominium Townhouse Investment (CTI): A Case for Accounting Courses Where Cases Are Not the Emphasis Accounting Perspectives. Vol. 11(4): 323-332, 2012. (April 1, 2011). Accounting Perspectives. Vol. 11(4): 323-332, 2012., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=747796 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.747796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
928
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,323
RANK
58,005
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies