Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Separating the Effects of Asymmetric Incentives and Inefficient Use of Information on Financial Analysts' Consensus Earnings Forecast Errors

33 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2005

Stanimir Markov

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Min Yen Tan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 2005

Abstract

Prior research on financial analysts' consensus earnings forecast errors has tended to explore either incentives-based or inefficient information use-based explanations for the properties of the analysts' forecast errors. This has limited our understanding of financial analysts' expectation formation process as incentives and cognitive biases are likely to simultaneously affect the properties of the analysts' consensus forecast errors. Our main contribution is in separating these two effects. In particular, using consensus quarterly earnings forecast data, we document that analysts have asymmetric loss function, and that they do not fully use past earnings and forecast errors information in minimizing their expected loss.

Keywords: earnings forecasts, loss function, forecast optimality

JEL Classification: G29, M41, D84

Suggested Citation:

Markov, Stanimir and Tan, Min Yen, Separating the Effects of Asymmetric Incentives and Inefficient Use of Information on Financial Analysts' Consensus Earnings Forecast Errors (July 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=768324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.768324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Basu , S Markov
Loss function assumptions in rational expectations tests on financial analysts' earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 38 , p. 171 - 203 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Daniel Bradley , Jay R. Ritter , Bradford D. Jordan
Analyst Behavior Following Ipos: The 'Bubble Period' Evidence
Review of Financial Studies, Volume 21, Pages 101-133 Pages: 48 Posted: 20 Jul 2005 Last revised: 25 Apr 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Bradshaw , S Richardson , R Sloan
Do analysts and auditors use information in accruals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 74 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,963
RANK
202,787
4 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies