Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting the Value of Repeated Contacts on Survey Response Rates in Management Accounting Research

41 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2005

Jean-François Henri

Université Laval

Nicole Thibodeau

Willamette University - Atkinson Graduate School of Management

Date Written: October 2006

Abstract

This study examines the use and effect of repeated contacts on mail survey response rates in management accounting research. The use of repeated contacts such as prenotification or follow-up is one highly recommended means to increase response rates. However, there is very little theory behind this recommendation. Further, the empirical evidence is mixed. We start by documenting the use and effect of such techniques on response rates in extant management accounting research. Second, we conduct an experiment to examine the individual and combined influence of prenotification and follow-up on response rates. The analysis of the literature from 1985 to 2004 and our experimental evidence reveal that repeated contacts do not systematically increase response rates. Our analysis suggests that there is a need to better understand when, why, and how repeated contacts are expected to influence response rates, and in particular, their potential benefit to management accounting mail survey research.

Keywords: management accounting, mail survey, response rates, follow-up, prenotification

JEL Classification: M19, M41

Suggested Citation:

Henri, Jean-François and Thibodeau, Nicole, Revisiting the Value of Repeated Contacts on Survey Response Rates in Management Accounting Research (October 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=776669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.776669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
Interdependencies in organization design: A test in hospitals
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 13 , p. 107 - 129 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L V Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Agresti
An introduction to categorical data analysis Posted: 1996
A Baines , K Langfield-Smith
Antecedents to management accounting change: A structural equation approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 28 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 675 - 698 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,892
RANK
284,107
3 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Profit as a Signal of Product Quality and Customer Service: Performance Evaluation for Plant Managers

By Michael S. H. Shih

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies