Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assume a Can Opener: Richard Posner's Perspective on Election 2000

Law, Probability and Risk, Vol. 1, pp. 75-82, July 2002

8 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2008 Last revised: 7 Feb 2011

Jonathan J. Koehler

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Abstract

Breaking the Deadlock by Judge Richard Posner is a provocative book about the controversy surrounding the 2000 Presidential election. Posner's tone is characteristically confident and his assaults on those he disagrees with (e.g. the Florida Supreme Court and the legal academy) are pointed and unyielding. The book is always clear, frequently informative, and occasionally persuasive. Why only occasionally persuasive? Because certain key positions that Posner stakes out follow from assumptions that the reader may not want to grant. This review focuses on three major areas of Breaking the Deadlock Breaking: the election statistics, the meaning of 'vote tabulation error', and the performance of the key players.

Suggested Citation:

Koehler, Jonathan J., Assume a Can Opener: Richard Posner's Perspective on Election 2000. Law, Probability and Risk, Vol. 1, pp. 75-82, July 2002 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=805039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Fla. Stat. Section , volume 102
Crossref
Fla. Stat. Section , volume 101 , issue 5
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,717
RANK
785,362
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies