Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Characteristics and Accruals Manipulation to Meet Earnings Targets

33 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2005

Michael S. H. Shih

University of Windsor - Faculty of Business Administration

Abstract

This study examines how firms' tendency to manipulate accruals to meet quarterly earnings targets, as measured by abnormal accruals volatility, relates to transient and non-transient institutional shareholdings. Abnormal accruals volatility is found to increase with transient (short-term) institutional shareholdings, but decrease with non-transient (long-term) institutional shareholdings. Robust across Jones-type models commonly used to estimate abnormal accruals, this result can be interpreted as suggesting that relative to individual investors' shareholdings, transient (non-transient) institutional shareholdings put more (less) pressure on firms to manipulate accruals. The difference in pressure applied is understandable given the difference in investment horizons and trading strategies across institutions; while transient institutions have short investment horizons and trade on short-term earnings news, non-transient institutions have long investment horizons and are insensitive to short term earnings news.

The study also finds that estimated abnormal accruals volatility increases with analyst following, research and development expenditures, and the value-relevance of earnings, but decreases with firm size and the long-term growth rate of earnings.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Shareholder Characteristics

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Shih, Michael S. H., Shareholder Characteristics and Accruals Manipulation to Meet Earnings Targets. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=807187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.807187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D Del Guercio
The distorting effect of the prudent-man laws of institutional equity investments
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 40 , p. 31 - 62 Posted: 1996-01
Crossref
S Graves , S Waddock
Institutional ownership and control: Implications for long-term corporate strategy
Academy of Management Executive , volume 4 , p. 75 - 83 Posted: 1990-02
Crossref
W Green
Econometric Analysis. 4 th ed Posted: 2000
N Johnson
Current SEC developments -"Managed earnings" and "the year of the accountant Posted: 1999-03-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,086
RANK
427,290
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies