Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economizing Principle in Accounting Research

22 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2006

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 21, 2005

Abstract

Joel S. Demski's work is characterized by the austere discipline of applying the economizing principle to accounting and management phenomena. In natural sciences optimization is used as a structural principle for understanding the organization of the physical universe. As social scientists applied it to our self-conscious selves, economizing acquired a behavioral interpretation, leading to unnecessary and avoidable confusion with the findings of cognitive sciences. Important aspects of aggregate level outcomes of social phenomena are structural. The use of the economizing principle for understanding social phenomena in general, and accounting in particular, has been highly productive, and it is not in conflict with cognitive limitations of human individuals. Demski's work defines the application of this powerful principle to problems of accounting.

Keywords: economizing principle, self-selection, employee stock options, integrated financial-tax accounting, audit failures

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Economizing Principle in Accounting Research (September 21, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=809365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.809365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
George A Ackerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality, Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 Posted: 1970-08
Crossref
M J Brennan , E S Schwartz
Consistent Regulatory Policy Under Uncertainty
The Bell Journal of Economics , p. 506 - 521 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Joel Demski
Discussion of 'Relationship between Accounting Changes and Stock Prices: Problems of Measurement and Some Empirical Evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 46 - 54 Posted: 1973
Crossref
C Cherniak
Component Placement Optimization in the Brain
Journal of Neuroscience , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 2418 - 2427 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,412
RANK
87,177
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Markets as Artifacts: Aggregate Efficiency from Zero-Intelligence Traders

By Shyam Sunder

Convergence of Double Auctions to Pareto Optimal Allocations in the Edgeworth Box

By Dhananjay (dan) K. Gode, Shyam Sunder, ...

Convergence of Double Auctions to Pareto Optimal Allocations in the Edgeworth Box

By Dhananjay (dan) K. Gode, Stephen Spear, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies