Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Short Sellers Convey Information About Changes in Fundamentals or Risk?

42 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2005

Jennifer Francis

Duke University

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Yun Zhang

George Washington University

Date Written: September 29, 2005

Abstract

We examine whether unexpected levels of short interest are associated with subsequent downward revisions in fundamentals and/or subsequent upward revisions in risk. We use prediction errors from monthly models of short interest over 1992-2000 to proxy for unexpectedly high (and low) short interest positions, and we compare changes in fundamentals (as captured by analysts' earnings forecasts) and changes in risk factor loadings that occur subsequent to these unexpected positions. Relative to a sample of control firms with the lowest unexpected short interest, we find that analysts revise downward their earnings forecasts more severely for firms with high unexpected short interest; in addition, realized earnings for the high unexpected short interest firms are more likely to fall short of the consensus forecast. Tests examining shifts in three-factor risk loadings following high unexpected short interest show little evidence of significant risk changes. Overall, our evidence suggests that the information short sellers exploit mainly concerns the market's misperception of these firms' fundamentals.

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jennifer and Venkatachalam, Mohan and Zhang, Yun, Do Short Sellers Convey Information About Changes in Fundamentals or Risk? (September 29, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=815668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.815668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M J Aitken , A Frino , M S Mccorry , P L Swan
Short sales are almost instantaneously bad news: Evidence from the Australian Stock Exchange
Journal of Finance , volume 53 , p. 2205 - 2223 Posted: 1998
Crossref
P Asquith , L Meulbroek
An empirical investigation of short interest, Working paper Posted: 1996
P Asquith , P A Pathak , J R Ritter
Short interest and stock returns, Working paper Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Brent , D Morse , E K Stice
Short interest: Explanations and tests
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 25 , p. 273 - 289 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,403
RANK
161,184
22 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Short Sale Constraints and Stock Returns

By Charles M. Jones and Owen A. Lamont

Short Sale Constraints and Stock Returns

By Charles M. Jones and Owen A. Lamont

Breadth of Ownership and Stock Returns

By Joseph Chen, Harrison G. Hong, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies