Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Early Adoption of Stock Option Compensation Expense

53 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2005 Last revised: 13 Oct 2007

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Date Written: September 29, 2005

Abstract

I examine the likelihood of firms adopting the fair value based method of accounting for stock option compensation cost in 2002 and 2003. To examine this issue, I use two matched sample methodologies: (1) a size and book-to-market matching method typically employed in empirical accounting and finance research; and (2) a Propensity Score matching method typically used in the life sciences. I create a profile of firms that elected to expense employee stock option compensation when it was not yet required by Statement on Financial Standards No. 123 (Revised): Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)). I find support for the general hypothesis that increasing switching costs from disclosure to recognition lowers the likelihood for stock option expense adoption in 2002 and 2003. More specifically, the likelihood of expensing stock options decreases when the magnitude of (implied) stock option expense increases and the value of options awarded to the firm's executives increases in relation to their total compensation. I find that the likelihood of expensing stock options increases when the interest coverage ratio increases and when the number of options awarded to the firm's executives increases in relation to the number of stock options awarded to all employees. I also find weak evidence that the likelihood of expensing is highest in the healthcare industry. Although these results hold under both matched sample approaches, the Propensity Score approach helps to prevent misleading statistical inference by reducing the bias inherent in traditional size and book-to-market matched sampling.

Keywords: Stock Option Compensation Expense, Disclosure, Recognition, FASB123(R), Propensity Scores, Matching

Suggested Citation:

Lisowsky, Petro, The Early Adoption of Stock Option Compensation Expense (September 29, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=816424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.816424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasznik
Firms' Voluntary Recognition of Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 150 Posted: 2004-05
Crossref
Accounting Principles Board, Opinion No. 25: Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees Posted: 1972
Bear Stearns , &amp; Co
Companies that Currently Expense or Intend to Expense Stock Options Using the Fair Value Method Posted: 2004-12-17
J Core , W Guay
Stock option plans for non-executive employees
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 61 , p. 253 - 287 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Kenneth Klassen , Devan Mescall
Valuation of Income Trusts: An Exploration of Clienteles and Implicit Taxes
39 Pages · Posted: 24 Apr 2006 · Downloads: 274
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,295
RANK
272,962
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies