Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of Absorption Cost Accounting and Production Decisions for Future Firm Performance and Valuation

Contemporary Accounting Research, 27(3), Fall 2010

46 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2005 Last revised: 8 Sep 2010

Mahendra Gupta

Washington University, St. Louis

Chandra Seethamraju

Franklin Templeton Investments

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Date Written: February 3, 2010

Abstract

We examine how inventory overproduction among high fixed costs firms affects these firms’ contemporaneous and future accounting performance, and how financial analysts and the stock market incorporate implications of these relations in their reactions. We find that higher fixed costs firms engaging in opportunistic overproduction are able to increase their contemporaneous return on assets (ROAs), but only those higher fixed costs firms that also experience inventory increases, sales declines, and issue common stock also experience declines in their future accounting performance. We further find that financial analysts are aware of this phenomenon and appropriately reduce their forecasts of future earnings per share (EPS) for higher fixed costs firms that experience sales declines and inventory increases. In general, we do not find that the stock market penalizes such opportunistic overproduction.

Keywords: Inventory, Overproduction, Analyst Forecasts, Real Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Mahendra R. and Seethamraju, Chandrakanth and Pevzner, Mikhail, The Implications of Absorption Cost Accounting and Production Decisions for Future Firm Performance and Valuation (February 3, 2010). Contemporary Accounting Research, 27(3), Fall 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=817510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Armor
The computation of fixed effects models , p. 2 - 5 Posted: 2007
E Bartov , D Cohen
The 'numbers game' in the pre-and post-Sarbanes Oxley eras, Forthcoming
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Hsiang-Tsai Chiang , Shu-Lin Lin , Li-Jen He , Yi-Ting Sung
Professional Education Background and Earnings Management of Chairmen and Senior Managers
The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 10 (2) p. 91-108 · 18 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2016 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
703
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,371
RANK
84,191
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies