Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pre-Announcement and Event-Period Private Information: A Trading Volume Analysis of Firm Size and Institutional Ownership Effects

41 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2005

Richard A. Schneible Jr.

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Douglas E. Stevens

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2005

Abstract

We study cross-sectional differences in pre-announcement and event-period private information acquisition across firm size and institutional ownership using trading volume reactions to earnings announcements. We find that abnormal volume associated with absolute price change increases with both firm size and institutional ownership, suggesting that pre-announcement private information acquisition increases with firm size and institutional ownership. We also find that abnormal volume independent of absolute price change increases with institutional ownership, suggesting that event-period private information acquisition increases with institutional ownership. In contrast, abnormal volume independent of absolute price change decreases with firm size, reflecting the previously documented positive relation between firm size and the precision of pre-announcement public information. By demonstrating that firm size and institutional ownership are determinants of pre-announcement and event--period private information acquisition, this study provides new insights regarding the incentive to acquire private information around earnings announcements and helps explain prior empirical results in trading volume reaction studies.

Keywords: private information acquisition, firm size, institutional ownership, trading volume reaction

JEL Classification: D82, G10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schneible, Richard and Stevens, Douglas E., Pre-Announcement and Event-Period Private Information: A Trading Volume Analysis of Firm Size and Institutional Ownership Effects (September 30, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=817565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.817565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
A Ahmed , R Schneible , D Stevens
An empirical analysis of the effects of online trading on stock price and trading volume reactions to earnings announcements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 413 - 452 Posted: 2003
Crossref
O Kim , R Verrecchia
Trading volume and price reactions to public announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 302 - 323 Posted: 1991
Crossref
________ ________
Market reactions to anticipated announcements
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 30 , p. 273 - 309 Posted: 1991
________ ________
Market liquidity and volume around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 68 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,550
RANK
248,977
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies