Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pension Information, Human Capital, and Firm Valuation

37 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2005

Yan Li

Trent University

Thomas W. Scott

Independent

Date Written: September 30, 2005

Abstract

We re-evaluate the evidence on the association between pension information and firm valuation by considering alternate theoretical constructs that can be captured in pension information. Economically, pension plans, especially defined benefit plans, but also defined contribution plans, are more likely to be employed by firms whose employees are more skilled and difficult to replace. Thus, the pension cost, assets, and liabilities, can act as proxies not only for the normal costs, assets, and liabilities that they are supposed to represent, but also for the omitted human capital asset that forms part of the unrecognized intangible assets of the firm. Additionally, within the context of normal asset and liability recognition, we consider the possibility that the true present value of defined benefit pension liabilities is less than that recorded because in difficult economic times the ability of defined benefit plans to bind the employee to the firm, results in employees making wage concessions such that the expected value of the pension liability across all possible states of the world is less than that recorded by accountants. We provide empirical evidence supporting the human capital hypothesis; the influence of pension cost for defined contribution firms and service cost for defined benefit firms on price and returns is consistent with them capturing human capital rather than employee compensation. However, after controlling for the human capital captured in the service cost for defined benefit plans the pension reported asset and liability behave as pure assets and liabilities.

Keywords: Pension, Human capital, Valuation

JEL Classification: M4, L11, C2

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yan and Scott, Thomas W., Pension Information, Human Capital, and Firm Valuation (September 30, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=818146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.818146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Allen , R Clark , A Mcdermed
Pension, bonding, and lifetime jobs
Journal of Human Resource , volume 28 , p. 463 - 481 Posted: 1993
Crossref
M Barth
Relative measurement errors among alternative pension asset and liability measures
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 433 - 463 Posted: 1991
M Barth , W Beaver , W Landsman
Value-relevance of banks' fair value disclosures under SFAS No. 107
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , p. 513 - 537 Posted: 1996
M Barth , G Clinch
Revalued financial, tangible, and intangible assets: associations with share prices and non market-based value estimates
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 199 - 233 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,046
RANK
377,290
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Risk and Return from Factors

By Louis K.c. Chan, J. Karaceski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies