Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Doing Quantitative Field Research in Management Accounting

47 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2005

Shannon W. Anderson

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Sally K. Widener

Clemson University

Date Written: October 2005

Abstract

This chapter provides practical guidance to management accounting researchers on the design and execution of field studies that use quantitative data analysis to test or build theory. We discuss common purposes for conducting field research and provide a brief overview of the accomplishments and failings of recent field research in management accounting. We then turn to the "doing" of quantitative field research, discussing practical considerations related to the role of theory; site election; and data identification, collection and preparation. Finally, we reflect on how field research practices may be amended to address some of the criticisms of prior field research.

Keywords: Field research, methods, quantitative analysis, field studies, management accounting education

JEL Classification: M40, M46, C80, C00

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Shannon W. and Widener, Sally K., Doing Quantitative Field Research in Management Accounting (October 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=833124 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.833124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
Webster's II New College Dictionary Posted: 2001
M A Abernethy , W F Chua , P F Luckett , F H Selto
Research in managerial accounting: learning from others' experience
Accounting and Finance , volume 39 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control system design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing Qualitative Field Studies in Management Accounting
Handbook of Management Accounting Research , volume 1 Posted: 2006
Load more
3 Citations
Ali Mohammadi , Parastoo Taherkhani
Organizational capital, intellectual capital and cost stickiness (evidence from Iran)
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 625 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Thomas Ahrens , Christopher S. Chapman
Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory
34 Pages · Posted: 12 Oct 2005 · Downloads: 1,081
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lili-Anne Kihn
Performance Outcomes in Empirical Management Accounting Research: Recent Developments and Implications for Future Research
International Journal of Productivity and Performance Management, Vol. 59, No. 5, pp. 468-492, 2010 · 37 Pages · Posted: 3 Nov 2009 · Last revised: 24 Nov 2010 · Downloads: 272
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,601
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,194
RANK
26,322
3 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory

By Thomas Ahrens and Christopher S. Chapman

Hofstede Never Studied Culture

By Rachel F. Baskerville

The Importance of Circulating and Presenting Manuscripts: Evidence from the Accounting Literature

By Lawrence D. Brown

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies