Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Convergent Validity between In-Lab and Out-of-Lab Internet-Based Experimental Accounting Research

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Vol. 18, 2006

22 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2005

Raquel Meyer Alexander

Freeman College of Management

Allen D. Blay

Florida State University

Kathy Hurtt

Baylor University - Department of Accounting & Business Law

Abstract

Although behavioral research is increasingly relying upon the Internet for data collection, few Internet-based experimental accounting studies have been published. Bryant et al. (2004) discuss the advantages and disadvantages of Internet-based research and conclude that experimental validity poses the largest potential concern. One explanation for the scarcity of internet-based accounting studies may be that accounting researchers find experimental validity concerns outweigh the benefits of Internet data collection. Krantz and Dalal (2000) report that Internet psychology experiments produce results similar to laboratory findings. However, experimental economics researchers find that results differ between Internet- and Lab-based settings. In this paper, we examine convergent validity between in-lab and out-of-lab data collection with professional accountant participants. Using data from an Internet-based accounting experiment, we test convergent validity on those variables observed to interact with experimental delivery method (in-lab or out-of-lab) in prior research. Our results are consistent with that of the psychology literature. Specifically, no statistically significant interaction is reported between experimental delivery method and the independent variables or the demographic measures. We discuss factors contributing to this result and the implications for future behavioral accounting research.

Keywords: Internet-based experiments, convergent validity

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Alexander, Raquel Meyer and Blay, Allen Dennis and Hurtt, R Kathy, An Examination of Convergent Validity between In-Lab and Out-of-Lab Internet-Based Experimental Accounting Research. Behavioral Research in Accounting, Vol. 18, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=840984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R M Alexander
The effect of source credibility on tax professionals' judgments in consulting engagements
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 5 , p. 33 - 50 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B P Allen
Shadows as sources of cues for distance of shadow casting objects
Perceptual and Motor Skills , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 571 - 584 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Psychological Research on the Net Posted: 2004
Crossref
V Anderhub , R Muller , C Schmidt
Design and evaluation of an economic experiment via the Internet
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 46 , p. 227 - 247 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,777
RANK
284,107
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies