Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Expected Cost of Equity Capital Using Analysts' Consensus Forecasts

Schmalenbach Business Review, Vol. 58, pp. 2-36, January 2006

36 Pages Posted: 3 May 2006

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

klein Stefan

Goethe University Frankfurt

Günther Gebhardt

Goethe Universität Frankfurt am Main

Abstract

In this study, we develop a technique for estimating a firm's expected cost of equity capital derived from its stock price and analysts' consensus forecasts. Our estimation method based on the residual income valuation model builds on Gebhardt/Lee/Swaminathan (2001) and Easton/Taylor/ShroffSougiannis (2002), but extends and refines their approaches by explicitly allowing daily estimation and using only publicly available information at that estimation date. We apply this technique to estimate the expected cost of equity capital at the market, industry and individual firm level using historical German data from 1989-2002 and examine firm characteristics which have been systematically related to these estimated return expectations.

Keywords: Implied Cost of Equity Capital, Equity Premium, Residual Income Valuation, Analyst Forecasts

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Daske, Holger and Stefan, klein and Gebhardt, Günther, Estimating the Expected Cost of Equity Capital Using Analysts' Consensus Forecasts. Schmalenbach Business Review, Vol. 58, pp. 2-36, January 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=876425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Jeffery S Abarbanell
Do Analysts' Earnings Forecasts Incorporate Information in Prior Stock Price Changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Jeffery S Abarbanell , L Victor , Bernard
Is the U.S. stock market myopic?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Christian Aders , Martin Hebertinger
Shareholder-Value-Konzepte -Eine Untersuchung der DAX100-Unternehmen Posted: 2003
Wolfgang Ballwieser
Der Kalkulationszinsfuß in der Unternehmensbewertung: Komponenten und Ermittlungsprobleme
Die Wirtschaftsprüfung , volume 55 , p. 736 - 743 Posted: 2002
Load more
2 Citations
Holger Daske
Economic Benefits of Adopting IFRS or Usgaap - Has the Expected Cost of Equity Capital Really Decreased?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 33, No. 3-4, pp. 329-373, April 2006 · 45 Pages · Posted: 25 May 2006 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bernd Huefner , Marcel Rueenaufer , Martin Boesch
A Fundamental Investor’s Guide on Reverse Engineering in Equity Valuation
38 Pages · Posted: 7 Dec 2020 · Last revised: 19 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 555
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
799
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,930
RANK
21,423
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies