Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online vs. Face to Face: Is There a Difference in How Accounting and Finance Students Learn in an Online vs. Face-to-Face Setting?

42 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2006

Kimberly A. Sipes

Kentucky State University - School of Business

Victor Ricciardi

Ursinus College; SSRN

Date Written: March 31, 2006

Abstract

This is a PDF file of 'Online vs. Face to Face: Is There a Difference in How Accounting and Finance Students Learn in an Online vs. Face-to-Face Setting?' slides from a presentation at the Innovative Teaching Methods Conference of the American Accounting Association: Southeast Region on March 31, 2006 in Knoxville, Tennessee.

Scholars in behavioral accounting, finance, and economics have begun to investigate how novices and experts learn in a wide range of accounting and financial settings. This session provided an initial discussion of the different learning processes for accounting and finance students enrolled in online vs. in-class (face-to-face) formats.

As educators, our primary goal is to facilitate the learning of our students. An emerging method of delivery known as online education, where the teacher and student may never have face-to-face contact; this online format is a increasingly provided by all different types of colleges and universities across the country. How does this alternate delivery method affect the learning process of students? Or does the learning technique of students have an influence on the way online courses are delivered?

The focus of this session was to review the main studies within the literature of learning as it relates to online delivery and face-to-face delivery of courses. One outcome of the session was to share with participants the main themes and findings from this collection of studies. This discussion presented scholars with a future avenue of research and a valuable source for improving their own teaching experience.

Note: SSRN is experimenting with enabling the distribution of different types of files: slides, spreadsheets, video, etc. This is an upload of a pdf file of an SSRN Workshop PowerPoint slides. We are interested in our users desires to distribute files that go beyond word processing text files. You can communicate with me on these issues via my email address below. We invite you to submit your own presentation slides.

Keywords: Online class, Face to Face, Internet Classes, Learning, Education, Accounting, Finance, Students, Behavioral Finance, Behavioral Accounting, Behavioral Economics

JEL Classification: M00, A00, A0, A2, A20, A23, I20, M40

Suggested Citation:

Sipes, Kimberly A. and Ricciardi, Victor, Online vs. Face to Face: Is There a Difference in How Accounting and Finance Students Learn in an Online vs. Face-to-Face Setting? (March 31, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=894223 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.894223
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
T Azarmi
Internet Integration of Finance Courses
The Journal of American. Academy of Business , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 188 - 190 Posted: 2002
S M Bryant , J B Kahle , B A Shafer
Distance Education: A Review of the Contemporary Literature
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 255 - 272 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S M Bryant , J E Hunton
The Use of Technology in the Delivery of Instruction: Implications for Accounting Educators and Education Researchers
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 162 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A M Clark
A Preliminary Investigation of Student Perceptions of Online Education
Information Systems Education Journal , issue 36 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,035
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,676
RANK
49,914
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies