Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating Latent Variables and Jump Diffusion Models Using High Frequency Data

Posted: 18 Aug 2006 Last revised: 27 Feb 2013

George J. Jiang

Washington State University

Roel C. A. Oomen

Deutsche Bank AG (London); Imperial College London - Department of Mathematics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2006

Abstract

This paper proposes a new approach to exploit the information in high frequency data for the statistical inference of continuous-time affine jump diffusion (AJD) models with latent variables. For this purpose, we construct unbiased estimators of the latent variables and their power functions based on the observed state variables over extended horizons. With the estimates of the latent variables, we propose a GMM procedure for the estimation of AJD models with the distinguishing feature that moments of both observed and latent state variables can be used without resorting to path simulation or discretization of the continuous-time process. Using high frequency return observations of the S&P 500 index, we implement our estimation approach to various continuous-time asset return models with stochastic volatility and random jumps.

Keywords: affine jump diffusion, latent state variables, unbiased minimum-variance estimator, generalized method of moments, high frequency data

JEL Classification: C13, C22

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, George and Oomen, Roel C.A., Estimating Latent Variables and Jump Diffusion Models Using High Frequency Data (August 1, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=925183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.925183
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,206
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Post-'87 Crash Fears in S&P 500 Futures Options

By David S. Bates

Transform Analysis and Asset Pricing for Affine Jump-Diffusions

By Darrell Duffie, Jun Pan, ...

Transform Analysis and Asset Pricing for Affine Jump-Diffusions

By Darrell Duffie, Jun Pan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies