Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Limitations of Industry Concentration Measures Constructed with Compustat Data: Implications for Finance Research

48 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2006 Last revised: 10 Jun 2009

Ashiq Ali

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Sandy Klasa

University of Arizona - Department of Finance

P. Eric Yeung

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 1, 2008

Abstract

Industry concentration measures calculated with Compustat data, which cover only the public firms in an industry, are poor proxies of actual industry concentration. These measures have correlations of only 13 percent with the corresponding U.S. Census measures, which are based on all public and private firms in an industry. Also, only when U.S. Census measures are used is there evidence consistent with theoretical predictions that more concentrated industries, which should be more oligopolistic, are populated by larger and fewer firms with higher price-cost margins. Further, the significant relations of Compustat based industry concentration measures with the dependent variables of several important prior studies are not obtained when U.S. Census measures are used. One of the reasons for this occurrence is that Compustat based measures proxy for industry decline. Overall, our results indicate that product markets research that uses Compustat based industry concentration measures may lead to incorrect conclusions.

Keywords: Industry concentration, product market competition, finance research

JEL Classification: G12, L10

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Ashiq and Klasa, Sandy and Yeung, P. Eric, The Limitations of Industry Concentration Measures Constructed with Compustat Data: Implications for Finance Research (February 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=926269 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.926269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
L H P Lang , R M Stulz
Contagion and Competitive Intra-Industry Effects of Bankruptcy Announcements: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 32 , p. 45 - 60 Posted: 1992
Crossref
P Mackay , G M Phillips
How Does Industry Affect Firm Financial Structure?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1433 - 1466 Posted: 2005
Crossref
V Maksimovic , G M Phillips
The Market for Corporate Assets: Who Engages in Mergers and Asset Sales and Are there Efficiency Gains?
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 2019 - 2065 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G S Miller
Earnings Performance and Discretionary Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,365
RANK
29,543
40 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Market Imperfections and Countercyclical Markups: Theory and Evidence

By Judith A. Chevalier and David S. Scharfstein

Survival of the Fittest or the Fattest? Exit and Financing in the Trucking Industry

By Luigi Zingales

Survival of the Fittest or the Fattest? Exit and Financing in the Trucking Industry

By Luigi Zingales

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies