Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Was the Market's View of U.K. Monetary Policy? Estimating Inflation Risk and Expected Inflation with Indexed Bonds

FRB of New York Staff Report No. 57

45 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2006

Eli M. Remolona

Bank for International Settlements (BIS) - Monetary and Economic Department

Michael Wickens

University of York; Cardiff Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Frank F. Gong

Bank of America - Bank of America, Hong Kong

Date Written: December 1998

Abstract

A measure of the credibility of monetary policy is the inflation risk premium in nominal yields. This will be time varying and can be estimated by combining the information in the nominal term structure with that in the real term structure. We estimate these risk premia using a generalized CIR affine-yield model, with one factor driving the real term structure of monthly observations on two-year, five-year and ten-year UK index-linked debt and two factors driving the term structure of the corresponding nominal yields. Our estimates show that the inflation risk premium contributes on average about 100 basis points to nominal yields. Since the exit from the ERM this has fallen to 70 basis points, showing greater policy credibility. The inflation risk premium provides a correction to the break-even method of forecasting inflation and produces an unbiased forecast.

Keywords: inflation risk, expected inflation, indexed bonds, affine yields and monetary policy

JEL Classification: E31, E43, E62, G12

Suggested Citation:

Remolona, Eli M. and Wickens, Michael and Wickens, Michael and Gong, Frank F., What Was the Market's View of U.K. Monetary Policy? Estimating Inflation Risk and Expected Inflation with Indexed Bonds (December 1998). FRB of New York Staff Report No. 57, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=937350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.937350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,498
RANK
271,899
17 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Federal Reserve Bank of New York Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Specification Analysis of Affine Term Structure Models

By Qiang Dai and Kenneth J. Singleton

Specification Analysis of Affine Term Structure Models

By Qiang Dai and Kenneth J. Singleton

A No-Arbitrage Vector Autoregression of Term Structure Dynamics with Macroeconomic and Latent Variables

By Andrew Ang and Monika Piazzesi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies