Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Valuation: How Helpful are Recent Accounting Rule Changes?

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 18, No. 4, pp. 44-52, Fall 2006

11 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023

Bradford Cornell

Anderson Graduate School of Management, UCLA

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Abstract

The longstanding debate over the proper definition of earnings - whether investors when setting stock prices focus primarily on GAAP earnings or other measures like operating cash flow - is both misguided and theoretically unresolvable. The biggest problem faced by investors in evaluating earnings reports is not their inability to understand the effects of the different accounting methods companies use when aggregating accounting line items into reported net income. More challenging, and more critical to the investment process, is getting complete and reliable information about the line items themselves. The authors' underlying premise is that investors, when provided sufficient information about these components of earnings, can combine or reconfigure them in whatever way they find most useful. But without sufficient and reliable information about the individual line items, investors will find it difficult to understand how earnings are generated and thus to produce the forecast of future earnings necessary to value a company.

In the past few years, there have been significant rule changes in accounting for employee options, derivatives, and special purposes entities. The authors evaluate the extent to which the new rules encourage disclosures that are helpful from a valuation perspective. Although there has been some progress, financial reporting in each of the three areas continues to fall well short of providing the complete, disaggregated data required to value a firm with confidence.

Suggested Citation:

Cornell, Bradford and Landsman, Wayne R., Accounting and Valuation: How Helpful are Recent Accounting Rule Changes?. Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 18, No. 4, pp. 44-52, Fall 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=950416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1745-6622.2006.00109.x
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,291
RANK
475,518
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Longitudinal Earnings Value Relevance and Intangible Assets: Evidence from Australian Firms, 1975-99

By John Goodwin

Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Impact on the Value Relevance of Intangible Assets

By Keryn Chalmers, Greg Clinch, ...

Towards Better Deterrence of Securities Fraud: Promoting Consistency in Sentencing Insider Traders

By Juliette Overland

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies