Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Growth, Volatility and Competitive Advantage on Equity Valuation

32 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2007

Jason Hall

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: 18 January 2007

Abstract

In this paper I examine the relationship between equity valuation and four value drivers - revenue growth, volatility, profit margin and competitive advantage. I derive equity valuation models which are more robust than those used by equity analysts in practice, but require analysts to consider very little additional information. The paper is motivated by evidence that the typical multiples-based valuations of analysts are not associated with improved portfolio performance. Prior research suggests that analysts devote considerable resources to forecasting near-term earnings, but derive target prices from those earnings in an almost arbitrary fashion. In contrast, the valuation practices of industrial firms show an increasing level of sophistication.

The models' predominant assumption is that firms' competitive advantage is unlikely to be sustained indefinitely. This implies that long-run expected returns on reinvested earnings are equal to the cost of capital - a concept generally-accepted in the literature but which typically results in valuations below transaction prices. Hence, I also account for the value of management's option to alter investment policy in response to signals regarding expected future growth. This assumption can be implemented by simulating earnings over an assumed competitive advantage period and computing the mean valuation which results from those simulations.

Keywords: Equity valuation, discounted cash flows, options, growth, volatility, competitive advantage

JEL Classification: G11

Suggested Citation:

Hall, Jason L., The Impact of Growth, Volatility and Competitive Advantage on Equity Valuation (18 January 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=957945 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.957945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Seoungpil A Ahn , David J Denis
Internal capital markets and investment policy: Evidence from corporate spin-offs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 71 , p. 489 - 516 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Asquith , Michael B Paul , Andrea S Mikhail , Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Warren Bailey
Valuing Agriculture Firms
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , p. 771 - 791 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Philip G Berger , Eli Ofek
Diversification's effect on firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 37 , p. 39 - 65 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
459
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,205
RANK
143,763
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies