Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of the Main Features of Accounting and Statistical Standards and Review of Latest Developments in the Field of Accounting Standards

Irving Fisher Bulletin, No. 22, September 2005

116 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2009

Paolo Poloni

European Central Bank (ECB)

Patrick Sandars

European Central Bank (ECB)

Date Written: September 30, 2005

Abstract

This paper provides a framework for comparing the international accounting standards and the international statistical standards. Moreover, it describes the recent developments in the accounting field and how statisticians have adapted to these developments.

Keywords: official statistics, international accounting standards, SNA93, IFRS

JEL Classification: C82, M40

Suggested Citation:

Poloni, Paolo and Sandars, Patrick, A Comparison of the Main Features of Accounting and Statistical Standards and Review of Latest Developments in the Field of Accounting Standards (September 30, 2005). Irving Fisher Bulletin, No. 22, September 2005 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=960986
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.' Bank for International Settlements
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Posted: 2004
The Credit Risk Center and Supervision in Brazil Posted: 2003
G Majnoni , M Miller , N Mylenko , A Powell
Improving Credit Information, Bank Regulation and Supervision: On the Role and Design of Public Credit Registries Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Powell
Basel II and Developing Countries: Sailing through the Sea of Standards Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,106
RANK
464,511
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Information Sharing in Credit Markets: International Evidence

By Tullio Jappelli and Marco Pagano

Information Sharing, Lending and Defaults: Cross-Country Evidence

By Tullio Jappelli and Marco Pagano

Sharing Default Information as a Borrower Discipline Device

By Jorge Padilla and Marco Pagano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies