Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Approaches to Accounting Research - Evidence from EAA Annual Congresses

37 Pages Posted: 10 May 2007 Last revised: 2 Feb 2009

Rolf Uwe Fülbier

University of Bayreuth

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: December 2008

Abstract

This paper describes an ongoing empirical-archival meta-analysis of accounting research over the last 30 years. We investigate different aspects of research approaches documented in the abstracts of papers presented at EAA Annual Congresses. The project is organized in two distinct phases: In the first phase, we present evidence on basic variables like topics pursued, methods applied and other characteristics of accounting research (including co-authorships and international as well as cross-institutional cooperation), both in terms of their development over time and their differences across countries. We believe that the results of this exploratory analysis are likely to be relevant for other researchers, journal editors, practitioners (including standard setters and firms) and others interested in current research trends as well as the debates surrounding "mainstream" accounting research, the "multi-paradigmatic" nature of accounting research and the notion of "globalization" of accounting research. Motivated by recurring debates about the status of accounting as an (applied or pure) science and the raison d'¿tre of prescriptive-normative (as opposed to descriptive-positive) research, the second phase uses content analyses of abstracts to infer authors' methodological approaches to accounting research (including research objectives and research "world-views", or paradigms). Here also, we look at both the inter-temporal as well as cross-country dimensions. The second phase is expected to lend empirical substance to ever-recurring disputes about the scientific status of accounting and the underlying motivations of accounting researchers. Our data covers practically all EAA Annual Congresses throughout the EAA's history (1978-present), yielding about 10,000 abstracts of research papers in 20 topic areas, presented by delegates from more than 60 countries. This early version of our paper reflects the subset of this data that has already been analyzed. We present basic descriptive evidence from EAA Annual Congresses between 1998 und 2008 and put up for discussion initial results on our empirical measure of research objective pursued.

Keywords: Methodology, accounting research, normative, positive, research objective, descriptive, prescriptive

JEL Classification: M41, B41

Suggested Citation:

Fülbier, Rolf Uwe and Sellhorn, Thorsten, Approaches to Accounting Research - Evidence from EAA Annual Congresses (December 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=985119 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.985119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
E Amir , B Lev
Value-Relevance Of Nonfinancial Information: The Wireless Communications Industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
B C Ayers
Deferred Tax Accounting Under SFAS No. 109: An Empirical Investigation Of Its Incremental Value-Relevance Relative To APB
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 11 , p. 195 - 212 Posted: 1998
Apostolos / Ballas , Vasilis Theoharakis
Exploring diversity in accounting through faculty journal perceptions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 619 - 644 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M E Barth
Fair Value Accounting: Evidence From Investment Securities And The Market Valuation Of Banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
Load more
3 Citations
Marek Gruszczyński
Financial Microeconometrics
, p. 121 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Jacek Gad
The Relationship between Accounting and Corporate Governance in the Light of Research Areas
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2014
Crossref
Marek Gruszczyński
Quantitative Methods in Accounting Research
Warsaw School of Economics – Department of Applied Econometrics Working Paper No. 6-09, · 16 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2011 · Downloads: 1,171
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,435
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,139
RANK
30,997
3 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies