Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research and Development Performance Measurement: A Case Study

Management Accounting Research, Vol 9, No 3, September 1998

Posted: 17 Jun 1998

Bill A. Nixon

University of Dundee

Abstract

The rising costs of Research and Development (R&D) and the increasing dependence of companies on technology for competitive advantage are causing both external investors and managers to seek better measures of R&D productivity and effectiveness. One major difficulty in evaluating R&D performance is that it is simply one of several activities in successful product development. However, notwithstanding the practical difficulties and limitations of R&D evaluation, the use of financial appraisal methods can assist communication, build consensus and provide a context which decision-makers can use to evaluate the more subjective dimensions of projects. The case study reported here exemplifies the relevance of features generally associated with good performance measurement; it also highlights the role of management accounting, especially target costing, when cost is a critical design parameter. The longitudinal view of the specific product development project examined in this case highlights a fusion of management accounting and design techniques as well as the role of accounting as an integrating vernacular that links all project team participants.

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Nixon, Bill A., Research and Development Performance Measurement: A Case Study. Management Accounting Research, Vol 9, No 3, September 1998, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=99308
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,426
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies