Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Review of Accounting and Economic Methods for Estimating the Costs of Addiction Treatment

iHEA 2007 6th World Congress: Explorations in Health Economics Paper

Posted: 28 Jun 2007

William S. Cartwright

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Managerial initiatives to improve administration and quality of drug abuse treatment have resulted in application of accounting and economic principles to costing research. Within drug abuse policy, systems and programs, this paper examines the current state of the art in applying various concepts and methods. Recent work has seen applications initiated in establishing charts of account and cost accounting for service delivery. Analysts will have available five methods to apply to the costing problem of drug abuse treatment programs. In all areas of costing, there is room for more research on costing concepts and measurement applications. Additional work would be useful in establishing studies with Activity Based Costing for both research and managerial purposes. Studies of economies of scope are particularly relevant because of the integration issues of social services and criminal justice in drug abuse treatment.

Keywords: cost, accounting, substance abuse

JEL Classification: C81

Suggested Citation:

Cartwright, William S., A Critical Review of Accounting and Economic Methods for Estimating the Costs of Addiction Treatment. iHEA 2007 6th World Congress: Explorations in Health Economics Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=994368
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,119
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Health Economics Evaluation Methods eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies