Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Can We Conclude from Common Tests of Accrual Mispricing?

46 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2007 Last revised: 22 Dec 2011

Mozaffar Khan

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management; Causeway Capital Management, LLC

Date Written: February 14, 2008

Abstract

Mispricing and risk have both been suggested as explanations for the cross-sectional relation between stock returns and firm characteristics such as accruals. As emphasized by Ferson and Harvey (1998) and Berk, Green and Naik (1999), it is difficult to evaluate these competing explanations without explicitly modelling the relation between risk and firm characteristics, if risk is not independent of firm characteristics. Drawing on theory and empirical evidence, this paper models systematic risk as a function of accruals, and accruals as mean-reverting. When the true abnormal returns are zero, but the true betas are unobserved by the researcher, the model predicts the anomalous pattern of empirical results previously reported in the accrual anomaly literature and attributed to mispricing: (i) CAPM abnormal returns to an accrual hedge portfolio are positive on average; (ii) the abnormal returns are positive in almost all years; (iii) abnormal returns decay as the holding period is extended beyond one year; (iv) the Mishkin (1983) test of market efficiency is rejected. Using simulations, the paper shows that small and plausible degrees of risk mismeasurement also reproduce the magnitudes of the anomalous results previously reported in the literature.

Keywords: Accruals, Risk, Return, Mispricing, Investment, Anomalies, Market Efficiency

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41, M43, M49

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Mozaffar and Khan, Mozaffar, What Can We Conclude from Common Tests of Accrual Mispricing? (February 14, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=995509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.995509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A Abel , F Mishkin
An integrated view of tests of rationality, market efficiency and the short run neutrality of monetary policy
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 11 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 1983-01
Crossref
K Aretz , S Bartram , P Pope
Macroeconomic risks and characteristics-based factor models
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 34 , p. 1383 - 1399 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Asano
Costly Reversible Investment with Fixed Costs: An Empirical Study
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 20 , p. 227 - 240 Posted: 2002-04
Crossref
R Ball , B Lev , R L Watts
Income variation and balance sheet compositions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 1976
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
543
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,662
RANK
117,225
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices

By Scott A. Richardson, Richard G. Sloan, ...

Accrued Earnings and Growth: Implications for Earnings Persistence and Market Mispricing

By Patricia M. Fairfield, Scott Whisenant, ...

Insider Trading, Earnings Quality, and Accrual Mispricing

By Mark E. Vargus and Messod D. Beneish

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies