Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism, Information Uncertainty and Analysts' Forecasts

42 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2008 Last revised: 29 Jan 2010

Jing Li

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Abstract

This study examines how accounting conservatism may affect the information environment of analysts' earnings forecasts, taking into account the interaction between unconditional and conditional conservatism. Unconditional conservatism preempts conditional conservatism in the later period and reduces the uncertainty in loss recognition associated with bad news. Through a simple analyst forecast model, I demonstrate that: 1) unconditional conservatism is negatively correlated with analysts' forecast errors for good news or mild bad news firms, but positively correlated with analysts' forecast errors for extreme bad news firms; and 2) unconditional conservatism reduces the overall uncertainty in analysts' forecasts. The empirical results are consistent with the predictions. Moreover, the evidence shows that the impact of unconditional conservatism on analysts' forecasts is greater for early forecasts, when the information uncertainty is high, than for late forecasts.

Keywords: unconditional conservatism, conditional conservatism, analysts' forecast error, overall uncertainty in analysts' forecasts

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G29

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jing, Accounting Conservatism, Information Uncertainty and Analysts' Forecasts. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1002681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1002681
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Rolf Uwe Fülbier , Joachim Gassen , Thorsten Sellhorn
Vorsichtige Rechnungslegung — Theoretische Erklärung und empirische Evidenz —
Zeitschrift für Betriebswirtschaft , volume 78 , issue 12 , p. 1317 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Sung S. Kwon , Liona Lai , Brian Gaber
Informedness and consensus of accounting disclosures under section 302 of the Sarbanes- Oxley act: High-tech firms versus low-tech firms
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 329 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Bong Hwan Kim , Mikhail Pevzner
Conditional accounting conservatism and future negative surprises: An empirical investigation
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 311 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Kai Wai Hui , Steve Matsunaga , Dale Morse
The impact of conservatism on management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 192 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,657
RANK
35,535
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies