Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Stickiness and Strategic Pooling

Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 23, 2010

59 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2007 Last revised: 26 Oct 2011

Ilan Guttman

Leonard N. Stern School of Business, New York University; New York University - Stern Scholl of business

Ohad Kadan

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Eugene Kandel

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Department of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: August 1, 2010

Abstract

We argue that dividend stickiness, the tendency of managers to keep dividends unchanged, implies that managers use a partially pooling dividend policy. We offer a model that demonstrates how such a policy can evolve endogenously in equilibrium. An informed manager who cares about the firm's intrinsic value as well as short-term stock price allocates earnings between investments and dividends. We show that there is a continuum of equilibria in which the dividend is constant for a range of realized earnings. Compared with the standard separating equilibrium, this partial pooling behavior induces higher firm value and lower underinvestment. We offer new empirical implications relating the pooling nature of dividend stickiness to the information environment of the firm, dividend prediction models, managerial incentives, and investment.

JEL Classification: G35, G31, D82

Suggested Citation:

Guttman, Ilan and Kadan, Ohad and Kandel, Eugene, Dividend Stickiness and Strategic Pooling (August 1, 2010). Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 23, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1012675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
F Allen , A Bernardo , I Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clienteles
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2499 - 536 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Allen , R Michaely
Payout Policy. in Handbook of Economics Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Constantinides , R Harris , Stulz , Amsterdam
R Ambarish , K John , J Williams
E¢ cient Signaling with Dividends and Investments
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 321 - 364 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
695
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,979
RANK
85,416
6 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

Dividends, Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis

By Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely

Payout Policy in the 21st Century

By Alon Brav, John R. Graham, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies