Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Oligopoly, Disclosure and Earnings Management

27 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2007

Mark Bagnoli

Purdue University

Susan G. Watts

Purdue University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2007

Abstract

We examine how biased financial reports (managed earnings) affect how firms compete in the product market and how product market competition affects incentives to bias reported earnings. We find that Cournot competitors bias their financial reports so as to create the impression that their costs of production are lower than they actually are. This bias leads to lower total production, a higher price and each competitor earning greater product market profits. These results obtain even though no firm is fooled by its rival's disclosure. We also find that the magnitude of the bias (the amount of earnings management) is larger when firms compete in more profitable product markets but smaller when they can extract more information about their rival's costs from their own. When the costs of misreporting are asymmetric, the lower cost firm engages in more earnings management than its rival, and it produces more and earns greater profits than it would in a full-information environment. Our analysis also offers new, testable implications for the relationship between earnings management, reported and actual earnings and industry structure.

Keywords: earnings management, bias, reporting bias, competition, information asymmetry, earnings, disclosure, oligopoly, information sharing

JEL Classification: G10, G14, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Bagnoli, Mark E. and Watts, Susan G., Oligopoly, Disclosure and Earnings Management (October 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1020957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1020957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Recent examples of the use of such agreements regarding misreporting of the type we examine include the Bristol-Myers Squibb case
Crossref
A Arya , H Frimor , B Mittendorf
Aggregated Discretionary Disclosures in a MultiSegment Firm Posted: 2007
M Bagnoli , S Viswanathan , C Holden
On the Existence of Linear Equilibria in Models of Market Making
Mathematical Finance , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Beneish
Earnings Management: A Perspective
Managerial Finance , volume 27 , issue 12 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
927
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,981
RANK
58,082
6 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies