Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Based Transfer Pricing

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 16, No. 2, Forthcoming 2011

41 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2007 Last revised: 11 May 2010

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Ulf Schiller

University of Basel

Joachim Wagner

University of Vienna - Institute of Business Administration

Date Written: October 7, 2008

Abstract

This paper compares the performance of alternative cost-based transfer pricing methods. We adopt an incomplete contracting framework with asymmetric information at the trading stage. Transfer pricing guides intra-company trade and provides incentives for value-enhancing specific investments. We compare actual-cost transfer prices that include a markup over marginal costs with standard-cost transfer prices that are determined either by the central office ex-ante (centralized standard-cost transfer pricing) or by the supplying division at the trading stage (reported standard-cost transfer pricing). For the actual-cost methods, we show that markups based on the joint contribution margin (contribution-margin transfer pricing) dominate purely additive markups (cost-plus transfer pricing). We obtain the following results. (i) Centralized standard-cost transfer pricing dominates the other methods if the central office and the divisions ex-ante face low cost uncertainty. (ii) The actual-cost methods dominate the other methods if the central office and the divisions ex-ante face high cost uncertainty and later, at the trading stage, the buying division receives sufficient cost information. (iii) Reported standard-cost transfer pricing dominates the other methods if the central office and the divisions ex-ante face high cost uncertainty, and the buyer has insufficient cost information at the trading stage.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Specific Investments, Costs

JEL Classification: D24, D82, L23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pfeiffer, Thomas and Schiller, Ulf and Wagner, Joachim, Cost Based Transfer Pricing (October 7, 2008). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 16, No. 2, Forthcoming 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1024112 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1024112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A H Amershi , P Cheng
Intrafirm resource allocation: The economics of transfer pricing and cost allocation in accounting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 7 , p. 61 - 99 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R M Anctil , S Dutta
Negotiated transfer pricing and divisional vs. firmwide performance evaluation
Accounting Review , volume 74 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R N Anthony , V Govindarajan
Management control systems Posted: 2007
A A Atkinson , R D Banker , R S Kaplan , S M Young
Management accounting Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,149
RANK
13,174
8 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Ownership, Incentives, and the Hold-Up Problem

By Tim Baldenius

Ownership, Incentives, and the Hold-Up Problem

By Tim Baldenius

Internal Pricing

By Tim Baldenius

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies