Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Agency Theory of Dividend Taxation

NBER Working Paper No. w13538

50 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2007 Last revised: 30 Dec 2022

Raj Chetty

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Emmanuel Saez

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: October 2007

Abstract

Recent empirical studies of dividend taxation have found that: (1) dividend tax cuts cause large, immediate increases in dividend payouts, and (2) the increases are driven by firms with high levels of shareownership among top executives or the board of directors. These findings are inconsistent with existing "old view" and "new view" theories of dividend taxation. We propose a simple alternative theory of dividend taxation in which managers and shareholders have conflicting interests, and show that it can explain the evidence. Using this agency model, we develop an empirically implementable formula for the efficiency cost of dividend taxation. The key determinant of the efficiency cost is the nature of private contracting. If the contract between shareholders and the manager is second-best efficient, deadweight burden follows the standard Harberger formula and is second-order (small) despite the pre-existing distortion of over-investment by the manager. If the contract is second-best inefficient -- as is likely when firms are owned by diffuse shareholders because of incentives to free-ride when monitoring managers -- dividend taxation generates a first-order (large) efficiency cost. An illustrative calibration of the formula using empirical estimates from the 2003 dividend tax reform in the U.S. suggests that the efficiency cost of raising the dividend tax rate could be close to the amount of revenue raised.

Suggested Citation:

Chetty, Nadarajan (Raj) and Saez, Emmanuel, An Agency Theory of Dividend Taxation (October 2007). NBER Working Paper No. w13538, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1024141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Franklin Allen , Antonio Bernardo , Ivo Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clientele
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
Franklin Allen , Roni Michaely , George Constantinides , Milton Harris , Rene
Payout Policy
Handbook of the Economics of Finance Posted: 2003
Alan Auerbach
Wealth maximization and the cost of capital
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 93 , p. 433 - 446 Posted: 1979
Alan Auerbach , Alan Auerbach , Martin
The Theory of Excess Burden and Optimal Taxation
Handbook of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 61 - 127 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,550
RANK
576,053
2 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

Dividends, Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis

By Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely

Payout Policy in the 21st Century

By Alon Brav, John R. Graham, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies