Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Protection and Interest Group Politics

Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 23. No. 3, pp. 1089-1119, 2010

Harvard Law and Economics Discussion Paper No. 603

43 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2007 Last revised: 28 Mar 2010

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Zvika Neeman

Tel Aviv University - Eitan Berglas School of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 1, 2008

Abstract

We model how lobbying by interest groups affects the level of investor protection. In our model, three groups - insiders in existing public companies, institutional investors (financial intermediaries), and entrepreneurs who plan to take companies public in the future - compete for influence over the politicians setting the level of investor protection. We identify conditions under which this lobbying game has an inefficiently low equilibrium level of investor protection. Factors pushing investor protection below its efficient level include the ability of corporate insiders to use the corporate assets they control to influence politicians, and the inability of institutional investors to capture the full value that efficient investor protection would produce for outside investors. The interest that entrepreneurs (and existing public firms) have in raising equity capital in the future reduces but does not eliminate the distortions arising from insiders' interest in extracting rents from the capital that public firms already possess. Our analysis generates testable predictions, and can explain existing empirical evidence, regarding the way in which investor protection varies over time and around the world.

Keywords: Investor protection, corporate governance, corporate law, interest groups, political economy, law and finance, insiders, institutional investors, entrepreneurs, equity capital, agency costs, private benefits of control

JEL Classification: D72, G20, G30, K22, O16

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Neeman, Zvika, Investor Protection and Interest Group Politics (November 1, 2008). Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 23. No. 3, pp. 1089-1119, 2010, Harvard Law and Economics Discussion Paper No. 603, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1030355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Franklin Allen
Corporate Governance in Emerging Economies
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 21 , p. 164 - 177 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Juan Qian , Meijun Qian
Law, Finance, and Economic Growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Wolfenzon Almeida
A Theory of Pyramidal Ownership and Family Business Groups
Journal of Finance Posted: 2006
Crossref
Lucian Bebchuk
A Rent-Protection Theory of Corporate Ownership and Control Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,095
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,689
RANK
16,286
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies