Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Optimal Focus of Transfer Prices: Pre-Tax Profitability versus Tax Minimization

38 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2007 Last revised: 28 Nov 2014

Jan Thomas Martini

Bielefeld University - Department of Business Administration and Economics

Date Written: October 27, 2014

Abstract

This paper studies transfer prices influencing managerial decisions and determining corporate taxes in a multinational firm. Common sense suggests that the transfer price decision should be made to maximize the firm's after-tax profit and thus achieve the optimal trade-off between pre-tax profitability and tax minimization. Based on a model of a decentralized firm facing asymmetric information with respect to operations, I examine why this conclusion does not hold in general. In particular, I demonstrate that a policy of negotiated transfer pricing, under which the divisions exploit their superior information but select the transfer price to maximize the firm's pre-tax profit, is the firm’s optimal organizational choice if the high-tax division's productivity is high. With respect to the firm's discretion over the transfer price, I identify situations where the firm's optimal policy choice does not depend on the arm's length range and where less discretion increases the firm's profitability.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Multinational firm, Taxation, Decentralization, Management Control

JEL Classification: C78, H25, L23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Martini, Jan Thomas, The Optimal Focus of Transfer Prices: Pre-Tax Profitability versus Tax Minimization (October 27, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1053641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1053641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R N Anthony , V Govindarajan
Management Control Systems Posted: 2000
T Baldenius
Intrafirm trade, bargaining power, and specific investments
Rev Account Stud , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 56 Posted: 2000
T Baldenius , N D Melumad , S Reichelstein
Integrating managerial and tax objectives in transfer pricing
Account Rev , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 591 - 615 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Baldenius , S Reichelstein , S A Sahay
Negotiated versus cost-based-transfer pricing
Rev Account Stud , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 67 - 91 Posted: 1999
Load more
4 Citations
Rebecca Reineke , Katrin Weiskirchner-Merten , Stefan Wielenberg
When do firms use one set of books in an international tax compliance game?
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-08 · 46 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 15 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 195
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Clemens Löffler
Divisionalization and Domestic Transfer Pricing for Tax Considerations in the Multinational Enterprise
Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 30 Pages · Posted: 10 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 133
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael Kopel , Clemens Löffler
Tax Differences and Global Supply Chain Architecture
37 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 186
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Markus Diller , Johannes Lorenz , Georg Thomas Schneider , Caren Sureth-Sloane
Is Tax Transfer Pricing Harmonization a Panacea? Real Effects of Global Tax Transparency and Standards Consistency
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 57, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-05, Forthcoming in The Accounting Review · 49 Pages · Posted: 2 Aug 2021 · Last revised: 26 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 340
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
715
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,751
RANK
82,321
4 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Centralized Versus Decentralized Transfer Pricing and Cost-System Choice

By Stephan Lengsfeld, Thomas Pfeiffer, ...

Transfer Pricing or Formula Apportionment? Tax-Induced Distortions of Multinationals' Investment and Production Decisions

By Jan Thomas Martini, Rainer Niemann, ...

The Value of Negotiating Cost-Based Transfer Prices

By Anne Chwolka, Jan Thomas Martini, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies