Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Network of Tinkerers: A Model of Open-Source Technology Innovation

BLS Working Paper No. 413

34 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2008

Peter B. Meyer

US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Office of Productivity and Technology

Date Written: November 2007

Abstract

Airplanes were invented by hobbyists and experimenters, and some personal computers were as well. Similarly, many open-source software developers are interested in the software they make, and not focused on profit. Based on these cases, this paper has a model of agents called tinkerers who want to improve a technology for their own reasons, by their own criteria, and who see no way to profit from it. Under these conditions, they would rather share their technology than work alone. The members of the agreement form an information network. The network's members optimally specialize based on their opportunities in particular aspects of the technology or in expanding or managing the network. Endogenously there are incentives to standardize on designs and descriptions of the technology. A tinkerer in the network who sees an opportunity to produce a profitable product may exit the network to create a startup firm and conduct focused research and development. Thus a new industry can arise.

Keywords: technological change, network, open source software, uncertainty, innovation, invention, collective invention, hackers, hobbyists, experimenters, tinkerers, airplane

JEL Classification: O3, O31, O34, N10, D83, D85

Suggested Citation:

Meyer, Peter Benjamin, Network of Tinkerers: A Model of Open-Source Technology Innovation (November 2007). BLS Working Paper No. 413, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1071991 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1071991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R C Allen
Collective invention
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 4 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1983
Crossref
James Bessen , Eric Maskin
Sequential Innovation, Patents, and Imitation. Institute of Advanced Study School of Social Science Working Paper 25
Forthcoming RAND Journal of Economics Posted: 2007
Tim Berners-Lee
Weaving the Web. HarperCollins Posted: 1999
Octave Chanute , Toronto Dover , R X Cringely
The Dream of Wings: Americans and the airplane , p. 1875 - 1905 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,200
RANK
292,443
4 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

From Knowledge to Ideas: The Two Faces of Innovation

By James E. Bessen

Filthy Lucre? Innovative Communities, Identity, and Commercialization

By Ethan R. Mollick

Knowledge Sharing Among Inventors: Some Historical Perspectives

By James E. Bessen and Alessandro Nuvolari

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies