Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Use of Loose Monitoring and Lavish Pay in Agency

37 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2008

Qi Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Thomas Hemmer

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Yun Zhang

George Washington University

Date Written: February 2008

Abstract

In this paper, we study a setting where a firm (principal) is privately informed of the firm's potential and contracts with an agent to supply unobservable effort. We show it can be optimal for the firm to have loose monitoring in the sense that the monitoring system is less perfect than what is implied by a standard agency model a la Holmstrom (1979) and to provide lavish pay in the sense that the optimal contract provides the agent with higher expected utility than his reservation level. These two tools are used to achieve separation among different types of firms such that firms with low potential do not have incentives to mimic contracts offered by high potential firms. Our findings imply that although loose monitoring and lavish compensation offered to employees may be symptoms of firms squandering scarce resources provided by investors, they can also arise as an optimal contracting arrangement.

Keywords: Performance measure, lavish pay, information system, loose monitoring, conservatism

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M46, J33, G34, D82, B21

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Qi and Hemmer, Thomas and Zhang, Yun, On the Use of Loose Monitoring and Lavish Pay in Agency (February 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1096245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1096245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the revelation principal
Review of Accounting Studies , issue 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
P Beaudry
Why an informed principal may leave rents to an agent
International Economic Review , issue 35 , p. 821 - 832 Posted: 1994
Crossref
H Chade , R Silvers
Informed principal, moral hazard, and the value of a more informative technology
Economic Letters , issue 74 , p. 291 - 300 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Q Chen , T Hemmer , Y Zhang
On the relation between conservatism in accounting standards and incentives for earnings management
Journal of Accounting Research , issue 45 , p. 541 - 565 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,812
RANK
317,057
3 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Geeksploitation: Optimism and Monitoring-Aversion in Agency Relationships

By Michael J. Smith

Economic Consequences of Equity Compensation Disclosure

By Jeremy Bertomeu

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies