Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Incentives for Keeping One Set of Books in International Transfer Pricing

27 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2008

Oliver M. Dürr

Esslingen University of Applied Sciences

Robert F. Göx

University of Zurich - Managerial Accounting; University of Zurich - Faculty of Economics, Business Administration and Information Technology

Date Written: February 1, 2008

Abstract

This paper analyses the optimal accounting and transfer pricing policies of two multinational duopolists facing price competition in the final product market. Our main finding is that firms in industries with a small number of competitors may benefit from using the same transfer price for tax and managerial purposes, even if the tax and managerial objectives are conflicting. This result contrasts earlier theoretical research having established the superiority of separate prices for tax and managerial purposes in a non-strategic setting. We analyze two different tax environments and identify conditions for which a joint commitment to a policy of one set of books is a dominant strategy equilibrium for both scenarios. We find that the existence of this equilibrium is more likely if the products are close substitutes, so that there is a high intensity of competition in the product market. Our analysis broadens the theoretical understanding of the factors governing the optimal accounting policy and provides testable empirical predictions. According to our results, the practice of one set of books should be the prevalent accounting method in markets with a small number of competitors and similar products.

Keywords: transfer pricing, multinationals, taxes, decentralization, duopoly

JEL Classification: F23, M41, D43, L22, H25

Suggested Citation:

Duerr, Oliver M. and Goex, Robert F., Strategic Incentives for Keeping One Set of Books in International Transfer Pricing (February 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1102979 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1102979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M Alles , S Datar
Strategic transfer pricing
Management Science , p. 451 - 461 Posted: 1998
Crossref
T Baldenius
Intra¯rm trade, bargaining power and speci¯c investments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 5 , p. 27 - 56 Posted: 2000
T Baldenius , N Melumad , S Reichelstein
Integrating managerial and tax objectives in transfer pricing
Accounting Review , p. 591 - 615 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Baldenius , S Reichelstein , S Sahay
Negotiated versus cost-based transfer pricing
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 4 , p. 67 - 91 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,065
RANK
169,080
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies