Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Innovation: Theory and Evidence

3rd Annual Conference on Empirical Legal Studies Papers

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 08-05

56 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2008 Last revised: 8 Jul 2012

Haresh Sapra

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Ajay Subramanian

Georgia State University

Krishnamurthy Subramanian

Indian School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 7, 2012

Abstract

We develop a theory to show how external corporate governance mechanisms, such as the market for corporate control, and internal governance mechanisms interact to affect innovation by firms. Our model generates the novel testable implication that there is a non-monotonic U-shaped relation between the degree of innovation undertaken by firms and the external takeover pressure they face. The U-shaped relation arises from the incentive effects of the interaction between expected takeover premia and private benefits of control both of which vary with the takeover pressure that the firm faces. In particular, the key characteristics of innovation that distinguish it from mere risk-taking play a central role in generating the U-shaped relation.

We show strong empirical support for the predicted non-monotonic relation using both ex ante and ex post measures of innovation. Our empirical analysis exploits the cross-sectional as well as time-series variation in takeover pressure created by the sequential passage of anti-takeover laws across different states. Our results suggest that innovation is fostered either by an unhindered market for corporate control, or by anti-takeover laws that are severe enough to effectively deter takeovers.

Keywords: Anti-takeover laws, Blockholders, Corporate Governance, Innovation, External Governance, Internal Governance, Monitoring, Takeovers

JEL Classification: G31, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Sapra, Haresh and Subramanian, Ajay and Subramanian, Krishnamurthy, Corporate Governance and Innovation: Theory and Evidence (July 7, 2012). 3rd Annual Conference on Empirical Legal Studies Papers, Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 08-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1103676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1103676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
P Aghion , Nick Bloom , Richard Blundell , Rachel Gri¢ , Peter Howitt
Competition and Innovation: An Inverted-U Relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Philippe Aghion , Peter Howitt
Appropriate Growth Policy: A Unifying Framework
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 4 , p. 269 - 314 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Philippe John Aghion , Luigi Van Reenen , Zingales
Innovation and Institutional Ownership Posted: 2008
Crossref
Chunrong Ai , Edward C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
12 Citations
Bill B. Francis , Iftekhar Hasan , Zenu Sharma
Incentives and Innovation: Evidence from CEO Compensation Contracts
Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 17/2011 · 63 Pages · Posted: 5 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 1,067
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vladimir Hlasny , Minsu Cho
Corporate Governance and Innovation under Demand Uncertainty: A Panel Study of Korean Firms
Hlasny, Vladimir, and Minsu Cho (2017), Corporate Governance and Innovation under Demand Uncertainty: A Panel Study of Korean Firms, International Telecommunications Policy Review 24(4):65-115. · 36 Pages · Posted: 8 Aug 2017 · Last revised: 5 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mehmet Ugur , Nawar Hashem
Market concentration, corporate governance and innovation: Partial and combined effects in US-listed firms
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 199 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Sudheer Chava , Alexander Oettl , Ajay Subramanian , Krishnamurthy Subramanian
Banking Deregulation, Bargaining Power and Innovation
Indian School of Business · 46 Pages · Posted: 17 Jul 2012 · Last revised: 28 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 277
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,800
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,162
RANK
7,858
12 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Motivating Innovation

By Gustavo Manso

Bankruptcy Codes and Innovation

By Viral V. Acharya and Krishnamurthy Subramanian

Innovation and Institutional Ownership

By Philippe Aghion, John Van Reenen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies