Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Asymmetry, Information Precision, and the Cost of Capital

Review of Finance, 2011

Wharton Financial Institutions Center Working Paper No. 06-21

42 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2006 Last revised: 2 May 2011

Richard A. Lambert

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Robert E. Verrecchia

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2008

Abstract

The consequences of information differences across investors in capital markets are still much debated. This paper examines the relation between information differences across investors and the cost of capital, and makes three points. First, in models of perfect competition, information differences across investors affect a firm's cost of capital through investors' average information precision, and not information asymmetry per se. Second, the average information precision effect is unlikely to diversify away when there exist many firms whose cash flows covary. Thus, better disclosure can reduce a firm's cost of capital. Third, the precision effect does not give rise to a separate information risk factor. These points are important to empirical research in financial economics, as well as to regulators who debate future disclosure requirements and the consequences of prior requirements such as Regulation Fair Disclosure.

Keywords: Information risk, Cost of capital, Expected return, Asset pricing, Disclosure, Rational expectations, Diversification

JEL Classification: G12, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Lambert, Richard and Leuz, Christian and Verrecchia, Robert E., Information Asymmetry, Information Precision, and the Cost of Capital (March 1, 2008). Review of Finance, 2011, Wharton Financial Institutions Center Working Paper No. 06-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1113649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1113649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Equation (A4) yields the following quadratic equation that solves for
A Admati
A noisy rational expectations equilibrium for multi-asset security markets
Econometrica , volume 53 , p. 629 - 658 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A Admati , P ‡eiderer
A theory of intraday patterns: volume and price variability
Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Brian K. Akins , Jeffrey Ng , Rodrigo S. Verdi
Investor Competition Over Information and the Pricing of Information Asymmetry
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Pages: 43 Posted: 27 Feb 2011 Last revised: 18 Apr 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
44 Citations
Frank Obenpong Kwabi , Samuel Owusu-Manu , Agyenim Boateng , Ernest-Bruno Ezeani , Min Du
Economic policy uncertainty and cost of capital: the mediating effects of foreign equity portfolio flow
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 457 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Stephen J. Dempsey , David M. Harrison , Kimberly F. Luchtenberg , Michael J. Seiler
Financial Opacity and Firm Performance: The Readability of REIT Annual Reports
The Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 450 Posted: 2012
Crossref
PINGYANG GAO
Keynesian Beauty Contest, Accounting Disclosure, and Market Efficiency
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 785 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Dongcheol Kim , Yaxuan Qi
Accruals Quality, Stock Returns, and Macroeconomic Conditions
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 937 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,241
RANK
7,766
44 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies