Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information and the Cost of Capital: An Ex-Ante Perspective

AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

Posted: 16 May 2008 Last revised: 31 Aug 2009

Peter O. Christensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance

Leonidas Enrique de la Rosa

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business Economics

Gerald A. Feltham

University of British Columbia

Date Written: May 15, 2008

Abstract

The relationship between the informational environment and the cost of equity capital has received considerable interest in finance and accounting research as well as in financial reporting regulation. Recent papers have demonstrated that increased public disclosure may decrease firms' cost of capital, at least if the additional information pertains to systematic risk. The discussion has focused on the impact of information on the cost of capital subsequent to the release of the information (the ex-post cost of capital). We show that the reduction in the ex-post cost of capital is offset by an equal increase in the cost of capital for the period leading up to the release of the information (the preposterior cost of capital). Thus, within the class of models framing the recent discussion, there is no impact on the ex-ante cost of capital covering the full time span of the firm. The extent to which information is made publicly or privately available affects the timing of the resolution of uncertainty and when the information is reflected in equilibrium prices, but there is no impact on initial equilibrium prices.

In efficient economies with only public information, there is no impact of the information system choice on the investors' ex-ante expected utilities either. In the partially revealing rational expectations equilibrium of an economy with private investor information, however, the rational investors may actually benefit from a higher ex-post cost of capital (at the expense of the liquidity traders).

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Peter Ove and de la Rosa, Leonidas Enrique and Feltham, Gerald A., Information and the Cost of Capital: An Ex-Ante Perspective (May 15, 2008). AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1133604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1133604
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,430
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies