Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Moral Solution to the Moral Hazard Problem

52 Pages Posted: 28 May 2008

Douglas E. Stevens

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Alex Thevaranjan

Syracuse University - School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 22, 2008

Abstract

In agency theory, offering a flat salary contract under unobservable effort creates a moral hazard problem because the agent is motivated to shirk and provide less than a previously agreed-upon level of effort. We examine a moral solution to this moral hazard problem. In particular, we present a principal-agent model where the agent possesses some level of moral sensitivity that causes him disutility if he provides less than the agreed-upon level of effort. We examine the interplay between moral sensitivity and firm productivity in determining the optimal salary contract, and contrast our moral solution with the traditional incentive solution that becomes necessary when moral sensitivity is assumed to be zero. This allows us to highlight the benefits of the agent's moral sensitivity to both the principal and the agent, and thereby, point out the potential cost of ignoring this moral sensitivity. We conclude that adding moral sensitivity increases the descriptive, prescriptive, and pedagogical usefulness of the principal-agent model.

Keywords: Agency theory, Moral hazard, Moral sensitivity, Firm productivity, Optimal contracts

JEL Classification: A31, D82, M14

Suggested Citation:

Stevens, Douglas E. and Thevaranjan, Alex, A Moral Solution to the Moral Hazard Problem (May 22, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1138279 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1138279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D Adams , E Maine
Business Ethics for the 21st Century Posted: 1998
G Akerlof
Labor contracts as partial gift exchange
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 97 , p. 543 - 569 Posted: 1982
Crossref
G Akerlof
Loyalty filters
American Economic Review , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 63 Posted: 1983-03
Crossref
G Akerlof
Gift exchange and efficiency-wage theory: Four views
American Economic Review Proceedings , volume 74 , issue 2 , p. 79 - 83 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
828
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,767
RANK
67,889
9 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Incentives and Prosocial Behavior

By Roland Bénabou and Jean Tirole

Incentives and Prosocial Behavior

By Roland Bénabou and Jean Tirole

Incentives and Prosocial Behavior

By Roland Bénabou and Jean Tirole

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies