Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Litigation Risk on Board Oversight and CEO Incentive Pay

56 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2008 Last revised: 14 Jan 2010

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 21, 2009

Abstract

Various commentators have praised the WorldCom and Enron settlements for holding outside directors personally liable, arguing that heightened director liability will induce greater board oversight. This paper shows that the connection between director liability and board behavior is more subtle, because directors have multiple means to respond to an increase in liability exposure: They can increase oversight to prevent accounting manipulation and/or reduce performance-based CEO pay to mitigate the CEO's ex ante incentive to engage in manipulation. These two decisions are interrelated, implying that the effects of director liability on board oversight and CEO incentive pay are ambiguous. In particular, the model predicts that, for firms in which board oversight is difficult and costly (e.g., large firms with complex business operations), a stricter legal environment for directors leads to a lower level of board oversight, lower CEO incentive pay, and lower shareholder value.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Director Liability, Board Oversight, CEO Incentive Pay, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: K22, G34, J33, G12

Suggested Citation:

Laux, Volker, The Effects of Litigation Risk on Board Oversight and CEO Incentive Pay (December 21, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1251982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1251982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and Severance Pay in Optimal Governance Structures
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Bachelder , R Campos , B Georgiou , A Hevesi , W Lerach , R Mendelsohn , R Monks , T Myerson , J Olson , L Strine , J Wilcox
Symposium on Director Liability , volume 31 , p. 1011 - 1045 Posted: 2006
B Black , B Cheffins , M Klausner
Outside Director Liability Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Stefan Schantl , Alfred Wagenhofer
When do corporate penalties for financial misreporting enhance long-term firm value? 
Review of Accounting Studies (forthcoming) · 88 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2023 · Last revised: 30 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 284
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,507
RANK
184,062
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Outside Director Liability

By Bernard S. Black, Brian R. Cheffins, ...

Outside Director Liability Across Countries

By Brian R. Cheffins and Bernard S. Black

Outside Director Liability: A Policy Analysis

By Bernard S. Black, Brian R. Cheffins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies