Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure and Investment

UIC College of Business Administration Research Paper No. 08-05

33 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2008 Last revised: 13 Dec 2011

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Date Written: November 28, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the determinants and economic efficiency of corporate voluntary disclosure. The focus is on the trade-off for an individual firm when the costs and benefits of voluntary disclosure stem from the consequences of its investment decisions and the impact on its share price. Investment and voluntary disclosure decisions are intertwined. First, voluntary disclosure leads to more accurate pricing, which induces more efficient investment decisions. Second, the firm may affect the market pricing in its favor by strategically disclosing or withholding its private information. This opportunistic use of disclosure may cause the real investment to be distorted at the margin. My analysis shows that the efficiency of voluntary disclosure is influenced by both effects. Further, this paper investigates how the investment efficiency and the propensity for providing voluntary disclosure respond to various environmental variables. Two such key variables are the general economic outlook of the investment opportunity and the quality of firm private information.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, investment efficiency

JEL Classification: M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Wen, Xiaoyan, Voluntary Disclosure and Investment (November 28, 2011). UIC College of Business Administration Research Paper No. 08-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1262382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO Stock Option Awards and the Timing of Corporate Voluntary Disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover
Option Value to Waiting Created by a Control Problem
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 405 - 420 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Beyer , I Guttman
Voluntary Disclosure, Disclosure Bias and Real E¤ects. Working paper Posted: 2010
S Bhojraj , R Libby
Capital Market Pressure, Disclosure FrequencyInduced Earnings/Cash Flow Con ‡icts, and Managerial Myopia
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Jan Schneemeier
Voluntary Precision Disclosure and Endogenous Market Feedback
50 Pages · Posted: 23 Mar 2017 · Last revised: 14 Oct 2022 · Downloads: 564
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
631
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,119
RANK
96,702
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reliability-Relevance Trade-Offs and the Efficiency of Aggregation

By Ronald A. Dye and Sri S. Sridhar

Stock Price, Earnings and Book Value in Managerial Performance Measures

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Imprecision in Accounting Measurement: Can it Be Value Enhancing?

By Chandra Kanodia, Rajdeep Singh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies