Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Voluntary Disclosure with Endogenous Proprietary Costs

48 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Pierre Jinghong Liang

Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: September 10, 2008

Abstract

This paper explores corporate disclosure in a dynamic oligopoly setting. In each period, a firm receives a signal on market size and must decide whether or not to publicly disclose the information before engaging in price competition in the product market. The main insight here is that firms' disclosure choices can be used strategically to sustain higher, collusive pricing choices on the product market. Specifically, two main forces in play are (1) no-disclosure makes it easier for the oligopoly to sustain higher prices because the uninformed firms are uncertain about the market size (and therefore the benefit of deviating from collusion is lower than otherwise); and (2) disclosure makes it easier to coordinate prices if and when the oligopoly wishes to condition equilibrium prices on the market size. We find that, when firms are sufficiently patient such that monopoly prices can be sustained as an equilibrium, no-disclosure is (weakly) preferable to any other disclosure policy. Otherwise and in contrast to the static model, a simple form of partial disclosure can be optimal: the informed firm does not disclose when market size is either too high or too low but discloses for intermediate market sizes.

JEL Classification: M4, G3, L1

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy and Liang, Pierre Jinghong, Dynamic Voluntary Disclosure with Endogenous Proprietary Costs (September 10, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1266295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1266295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
) < p * conditional on s 2 , but not disclose s 1 and s 3 , and set a price equal to p * ; when s 3 is realized, the informed firm also undercuts and takes the complete surplus. Finally, when δ ∈ [2/3, 7/10), partial disclosure is no longer feasible and the efficient PPNE is one with full disclosure
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover
Teams, repeated tasks, and implicit incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 23 , p. 7 - 30 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Athey , K Bagwell , C Sanchirico
Collusion and price rigidity
Review of Economic Studies , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 349 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G Baker , R Gibbons , K J Murphy
Subjective performance measures in optimal incentive contracts
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 1125 - 1156 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Thomas Bourveau , Matthias Breuer , Robert Stoumbos
Learning to Disclose: Disclosure Dynamics in the 1890s Streetcar Industry
113 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 6 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,061
RANK
298,527
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies