Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants and Information Content of the Forward-looking Statements in Corporate Filings - A Naive Bayesian Machine Learning Approach

AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

57 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2008

Feng Li

Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Date Written: September 12, 2008

Abstract

This paper examines the tone and content of the forward-looking statements (FLS) in corporate 10-K and 10-Q filings using a Naive Bayesian machine learning algorithm. I first manually categorize 30,000 sentences of randomly selected FLS extracted from the MD&As along two dimensions: (1) tone (i.e., positive versus negative tone); and (2) content (i.e., profitability, operations, and liquidity etc.). These manually coded sentences are then used as training data in a Naive Bayesian machine learning algorithm to classify the tone and content of about 13 million forward-looking statements from more than 140,000 corporate 10-K and 10-Q MD&As between 1994 and 2007.

I find that firms with better current performance, lower accruals, smaller size, lower market-to-book ratio, and less return volatility tend to have more positive forward-looking statements in MD&As. The average tone of the forward-looking statements in a firm's MD&A is positively associated with future earnings and liquidity, even after controlling for other determinants of future performance and there is no systematic change in the information content of MD&As over time. Finally, the evidence indicates that financial analysts do not fully understand the information content of the MD&As in making their forecasts.

Keywords: MD&A, Information content, Machine learning

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M45, G29, G38

Suggested Citation:

Li, Feng, The Determinants and Information Content of the Forward-looking Statements in Corporate Filings - A Naive Bayesian Machine Learning Approach (September 12, 2008). AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1267235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1267235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Murray Z. Frank , Werner Antweiler
Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards
AFA 2002 Atlanta Meetings, Sauder School of Business Working Paper Pages: 48 Posted: 8 Sep 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stephen M Bainbridge
A Complete Guide to Sarbanes-Oxley: Understanding How Sarbanes-Oxley Affects Your Business Posted: 2007
Orie E Barron , O Charles , Terrence B Kile , O&apos;keefe
MD&A quality as measured by the SEC and analysts' earning forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Richrad E Bellman
Adaptive Control Processes Posted: 1961
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,705
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,487
RANK
23,879
3 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies