Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fundamental Analysis and Hedge Trading in a Disagreement Model

AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

41 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2008

Russell J. Lundholm

University of British Columbia - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: September, 19 2008

Abstract

In this paper I present a simple model where hedge traders meet fundamental traders in a competitive stock market. The key distinction between the two trader groups is that hedge traders evaluate information on a relative basis while fundamental traders evaluate information on an absolute basis. In particular, hedge traders rank-order stocks based on a signal and form a long/short portfolio. Fundamental traders observe the same underlying signals as the hedge traders but use the information very differently. Fundamental traders understand the relation between each firm's signal and its future cash flows and use this to create a value estimate for each stock. They compare the value estimate to the firm's price and make a decision to buy or sell the stock based on this comparison. The model makes predictions about how the aggressiveness of the hedge traders, the informativeness of the signals, and the mix of investor types influence the efficiency in the market and the expected profits to a hedge-trading or fundamental analysis strategy.

Keywords: hedge trading, financial statement analysis

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lundholm, Russell J., Fundamental Analysis and Hedge Trading in a Disagreement Model (September, 19 2008). AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1270758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1270758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
W Beaver
Market efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 56 , p. 23 - 37 Posted: 1981
V L Bernard , J K Thomas
Post-earnings-announcement drift: Delayed price response or risk premium
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R Bloomfield , R Libby
Market reactions to differentially available information in the laboratory
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 207 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R Bloomfield , R Libby , M Nelson
Experimental research in financial accounting
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 27 , p. 775 - 810 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,736
RANK
208,120
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Stock Returns, Aggregate Earnings Surprises, and Behavioral Finance

By Jonathan Lewellen, S.p. Kothari, ...

Explaining Returns with Cash-Flow Proxies

By Peter Andrew Hecht and Tuomo Vuolteenaho

Accruals and Aggregate Stock Market Returns

By David Hirshleifer, Kewei Hou, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies