Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Demand for the Truth in Principal-Agent Relationships

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27587

48 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2008

Joshua Ronen

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Varda Lewinstein Yaari

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2006

Abstract

Consider the following puzzle: If earnings management is harmful to shareholders, whydon't they design contracts that induce managers to reveal the truth? To answer this question, we model the shareholders-manager relationship as a principal-agent game in which the agent (the manager) alone observes the economic outcome. We show that the limited liability of the agent, defined as the agent's feasible minimum payment, might explain the demand for earnings management by the principal. Specifically, when the limited-liability level is high (low), a contract that induces earnings management may be less (more) costly than a truth revealingcontract. This finding offers a new explanation of the demand for earningsmanagement.

Keywords: Limited liability, Principal-agent contract, Report management, Revelation Principle

Suggested Citation:

Ronen, Joshua and Yaari, Varda Lewinstein, Demand for the Truth in Principal-Agent Relationships (July 2006). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27587, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1281351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Arya , Jonathan C Anil , Shyam Glover , Sunder
Earnings Management and the Revelation Principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
Anil Arya , C Jonathan , Shyam Glover , Sunder
Are Unmanaged Earnings Always Better for Shareholders?
Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , p. 111 - 116 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Kaushik Basu , Clive Bell , Pinaki Bose
Interlinkage, Limited Liability and Strategic Interaction
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 42 , p. 445 - 462 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Peter Christensen , Jerald A Ove , Feltham
Economics of Information , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,776
RANK
190,292
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Information Technology and Optimal Firm Structure

By Amir Ziv

Monitoring in Multiagent Organizations

By Tim Baldenius, Nahum D. Melumad, ...

Production Externalities, Congruity of Aggregate Signals, and Optimal Task Assignments

By John S. Hughes, Li Zhang, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies