Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discontinuity in Earnings Distributions: A Theory and Evidence

56 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2008 Last revised: 30 Jun 2011

Wei Li

University of Washington-Bothell; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 2010

Abstract

This paper presents a model of financial reporting in which investors infer both pre-managed earnings and the precision of earnings from reported earnings. Over-reporting earnings has two opposing pricing effects: investors infer higher pre-managed earnings from an inflated positive earnings surprise (i.e., positive effect); however, investors also infer a lower earnings precision, leading to a lower pricing weight placed on the higher surprise (i.e., negative effect). For firms with strongly positively autocorrelated earnings, the trade-off between the two opposing effects creates a pooled report right above the prior mean of the earnings distribution and a no-reporting "hole" right below the prior mean in equilibrium (i.e., an earnings discontinuity consistent with empirical findings). The model also predicts: (1) no earnings discontinuity exists for firms with negatively or weakly positively autocorrelated earnings, and (2) the earnings discontinuity is more pronounced for firms with more positively autocorrelated earnings. The empirical evidence supports the two predictions.

Keywords: earnings discontinuity, earnings precision

JEL Classification: M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Li, Wei, Discontinuity in Earnings Distributions: A Theory and Evidence (October 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1296803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1296803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
W Baber , S Kang
The impact of split-adjusting and rounding on analysts' forecast error calculations
Accounting Horizons , volume 16 , p. 277 - 289 Posted: 2002
Crossref
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , K K Nelson
An alternative interpretation of the discontinuity in earnings distributions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , p. 525 - 556 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Anne Beyer
Capital Market Prices, Management Forecasts, and Earnings Management
Accounting Review, Vol. 84, No. 6, 2009 Pages: 45 Posted: 2 Jun 2008 Last revised: 13 Aug 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Brown , M Roze¤
The superiority of analysts'forecasts as measures of expectations: evidence from earnings
Journal of Finance , volume 33 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 1978
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,391
RANK
436,820
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies