Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Auditor's Slippery Slope: The Ill Effects of Reputation

McCombs Research Paper Series No. ACC-04-08

32 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2008 Last revised: 20 Dec 2008

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Ramandeep S. Randhawa

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Date Written: October 17, 2008

Abstract

Reputational concerns have been commonly perceived to have a positive effect on auditing firms' execution of their monitoring and attesting functions. This paper demonstrates that this need not always be the case by studying a two period game of repeated interaction between a manager and an auditor under the assessment of the market for audit services. Regarding reputation as the sole motivator for the auditor, we illustrate how reputational concerns induce an auditing firm to misreport. We investigate the reasons and circumstances under which such misreporting takes place. In particular, a strategic manager can induce the audit firm down a 'slippery-slope' situation, wherein the managerial fraud increases as the tenure of the audit firm progresses, while the auditor's fraud reporting probability decreases.

Keywords: Audit, Auditor, Reputation, Fraud, Reporting, Disclosure

JEL Classification: M49, M41, M43, G38

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Randhawa, Ramandeep S., The Auditor's Slippery Slope: The Ill Effects of Reputation (October 17, 2008). McCombs Research Paper Series No. ACC-04-08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1310914 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1310914
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S Baiman , Iii Evans , J H Nagarajan , N
Collusion in auditing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1991
Crossref
S Baiman , Iii Evans , J H Noel , J
Optimal contracts with a utility-maximizing auditor
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 244 Posted: 1987
Crossref
A Beyer , S S Sridhar
Effects of multiple clients on the reliability of audit reports
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Coffee
Gatekeeper failure and reform: The challenge of fashioning relevant reforms', Berkeley Program in Law and Economics Working Paper Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,800
RANK
213,801
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Self-Selection of Auditors and Audit Pricing in Private Firms

By Paul K. Chaney, Debra C. Jeter, ...

Was Arthur Andersen Different? An Empirical Examination of Major Accounting Firms' Audits of Large Clients

By Theodore Eisenberg (deceased) and Jonathan R. Macey

Auditor Reputation, Auditor Independence and the Stock Market Reaction to Andersen's Clients

By Srinivasan Krishnamurthy, Jian Zhou, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies