Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Agency Theory of Conservative Accrual Accounting

Simon School Working Paper No. FR 09-11

37 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2009 Last revised: 26 Aug 2009

Michael Raith

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Date Written: August 23, 2009

Abstract

This paper argues that accrual-based financial accounting, including the conservative recognition of anticipated cash flows, mimics the properties of an optimal multi-period incentive contract between a firm and a manager. I study a two-period principal-agent model in which a manager can be compensated based on an early signal of a future outcome of his action, or (later) based on the outcome itself. In this dynamic setting it is optimal to use both performance measures even if the signal is strictly noisier than the outcome. Accrual accounting enables the firm and the manager to "settle up" in each period, which is optimal if the manager cannot commit to a long-term contract. Conservative accruals attribute to a period only the portion of expected cash flows that is explained, in a Bayesian sense, by information available in that period. I relate these results to conventional accounting rules and the literature on conservatism.

Keywords: incentive contracts, accrual accounting,conservatism, unconditional conservatism

JEL Classification: D86, G34, M41, M44, M46, M52

Suggested Citation:

Raith, Michael, An Agency Theory of Conservative Accrual Accounting (August 23, 2009). Simon School Working Paper No. FR 09-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1326089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1326089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
The earnings equation can be generalized to E 1 = ϕz + k since β 1 k and −γk are constants that can be added to α 1 and subtracted from α 2 , respectively. References Ball, Ray, and Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in UK Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Michael Barclay , Dan Gode , S P Kothari
Measuring Delivered Performance
Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics , volume 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Sudipta Basu
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
William H Beaver , Stephen G Ryan
Conditional and Unconditional Conservatism: Concepts and Modeling , volume 10 , p. 269 - 309 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,550
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,389
RANK
12,558
6 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies