Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Soft Information and the Stewardship Value of Accounting Disclosure

39 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2009

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: January 28, 2009

Abstract

In the light of IASB's statement to drop stewardship as a separate objective of financial accounting and the ongoing debate about increasing the disclosure of soft information, we investigate the economic consequences of publicly reported soft information from a stewardship perspective. In a LEN model we include market price as a performance measure and investigate whether the principal benefits from disclosing additional information. While the principal can only use contractible performance measures in the contract with the agent, capital market participants can only use disclosed information when pricing firm value. We find that the disclosure of information can decrease the principal's expected net profit. This result follows from either a noisier or a less congruent market price as a consequence of disclosing additional information. Thus, we present a rationale for partial disclosure in the absence of proprietary costs or the uncertainty of information endowment.

Keywords: soft information, disclosure, incentive contracts

JEL Classification: D82, G14, M41, M44, M45

Suggested Citation:

Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Hofmann, Christian, Soft Information and the Stewardship Value of Accounting Disclosure (January 28, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1334327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1334327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
Earnings and Price-based Compensation Contracts in the Presence of Discretionary Trading and Incomplete Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 93 - 121 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Bushman , E Engel , A Smith
An Analysis of the Relation between the Stewardship and Valuation Roles of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 53 - 83 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R M Bushman , R J Indjejikian
Stewardship Value of 'Distorted' Accounting Disclosures
Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 765 - 782 Posted: 1993
X Chen , Q Cheng , K Lo
Are Analyst Research and Corporate Disclosures Complements or Substitutes? Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,922
RANK
160,721
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies