Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gray Markets and Multinational Transfer Pricing

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 09-098

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2009 Last revised: 22 Jul 2011

Romana L. Autrey

Willamette University - Atkinson Graduate School of Management

Francesco Bova

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: July 20, 2011

Abstract

Gray markets arise when a manufacturer’s products are sold outside of its authorized channels, for instance when goods designated by a multinational firm for sale in a foreign market are resold domestically. One method multinationals use to combat gray markets is to increase transfer prices to foreign subsidiaries in order to increase the gray market’s cost base. We illustrate that, when a gray market competitor exists, the optimal transfer price to a foreign subsidiary exceeds marginal cost and is decreasing in the competitiveness of the domestic market. However, a multinational’s discretion in setting transfer prices may be limited by mandatory arm’s length transfer pricing rules. Provided gray markets exist, we characterize when mandating arm’s length transfer pricing lowers domestic social welfare relative to unrestricted transfer pricing. We also demonstrate that gray markets can lead to higher domestic tax revenues, even when gray market firms do not pay taxes domestically.

Keywords: Transfer pricing, gray markets, regulation

JEL Classification: M41, D43, F23

Suggested Citation:

Autrey, Romana L. and Bova, Francesco, Gray Markets and Multinational Transfer Pricing (July 20, 2011). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 09-098, Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1351883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
K D Antia , M Bergen , S Dutta ; R , Fisher
How does enforcement deter gray market incidence
Sloan Management Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 92 - 106 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G Assmus , C Wiese
How to address the gray market threat using price coordination
Sloan Management Review , volume 36 , p. 31 - 41 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Interacting of supply chain distortions: The pricing of internal transfers and external procurement
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 82 , issue 3 , p. 1850 - 1860 Posted: 2007
T Baldenius , N Melumad , S Reichelstein
Integrating managerial and tax objectives in transfer pricing
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 591 - 615 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
821
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,220
RANK
68,632
5 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Differential Pricing for Pharmaceuticals: Reconciling Access, R&D and Patents

By Patricia M. Danzon and Adrian Towse

First Report (Final) to the Committee on International Trade Law of the International Law Association on the Subject of Parallel Importation

By Frederick M. Abbott

Differential Pricing, Parallel Trade, and the Incentive to Invest

By Tommaso M. Valletti

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies