Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

NYU Working Paper No. FIN-08-028

42 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2009

Viral V. Acharya

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Peter M. DeMarzo

Stanford Graduate School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Ilan Kremer

Independent

There are 5 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2009

Abstract

We consider the release of information by a firm when the manager has discretion regarding the timing of its release. While it is well known that firms appear to delay the release of bad news, we examine how external information about the state of the economy (or the industry) affects this decision. We develop a dynamic model of strategic disclosure in which a firm may privately receive information at a time that is random (and independent of the state of the economy). Because investors are uncertain regarding whether and when the firm has received information, the firm will not necessarily disclose the information immediately. We show that bad news about the economy can trigger the immediate release of information by firms. Conversely, good news about the economy can slow the release of information by firms. As a result, the release of negative information tends to be clustered. Surprisingly, this result holds only when firms can preempt the arrival of external information by disclosing their own information first. These results have implications for conditional variance and skewness of stock and market returns.

Suggested Citation:

Acharya, Viral V. and Acharya, Viral V. and DeMarzo, Peter M. and Kremer, Ilan, Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements (February 2009). NYU Working Paper No. FIN-08-028, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1354515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Anat Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
David Aboody , Ron Kasznik
CEO Stock Option Awards and the Timing of Corporate Voluntary Disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L A Alles , J L Kling
Regularities in the Variation of Skewness in Asset Returns
Journal of Financial Research , volume 17 , p. 427 - 438 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Andrew Tang , Joseph Chen
Asymmetric Correlations of Equity Portfolios
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 63 , p. 443 - 494 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,360
RANK
104,934
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Within-Industry Timing of Earnings Warnings: Do Managers Herd?

By Senyo Y. Tse and Jennifer Tucker

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies