Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equilibrium in Securities Markets with Heterogeneous Investors and Unspanned Income Risk

38 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2009 Last revised: 4 May 2011

Peter O. Christensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance

Kasper Larsen

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Claus Munk

Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: May 2, 2011

Abstract

In a finite time horizon, incomplete market, continuous-time setting with dividends and investor incomes governed by arithmetic Brownian motions, we derive closed-form solutions for the equilibrium risk-free rate and stock price for an economy with a finite set of heterogeneous CARA investors and unspanned income risk. In equilibrium, the Sharpe ratio is the same as in an otherwise identical complete market economy, whereas the risk-free rate is lower and, consequently, the stock price is higher. The reduction in the risk-free rate is highest when the more risk-averse investors face the largest unspanned income risk. In numerical examples with reasonable parameters, the risk-free rate is reduced by several percentage points.

Keywords: Unspanned income, heterogeneous preferences, continuous-time equilibrium, risk-free rate puzzle, equity premium, incomplete markets, Brownian motion

JEL Classification: G12, G11, D53

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Peter Ove and Larsen, Kasper and Munk, Claus, Equilibrium in Securities Markets with Heterogeneous Investors and Unspanned Income Risk (May 2, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1364237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1364237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S R Aiyagari , M Gertler
Asset Returns with Transactions Costs and Uninsured Individual Risk
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 311 - 331 Posted: 1991
Crossref
O P Attanasio , M Paiella
Intertemporal Consumption Choices, Transaction Costs and Limited Participation in Financial Markets: Reconciling Data and Theory
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 322 - 343 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Bansal , A Yaron
Risks for the Long Run: A Potential Resolution of Asset Pricing Puzzles
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1481 - 1509 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Ba¸sakba¸sak
A Model of Dynamic Equilibrium Asset Pricing with Heterogeneous Beliefs and Extraneous Risk
Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 95 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,320
RANK
158,514
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Asset Pricing with Heterogeneous Beliefs

By Suleyman Basak

The Term Structure of Interest Rates in a Pure Exchange Economy with Heterogeneous Investors

By Jiang Wang

Heterogeneous Expectations and Bond Markets

By Hongjun Yan and Wei Xiong

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies