Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Manipulation and the Cost of Capital

31 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2009

Günter Strobl

University of Vienna - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 18, 2009

Abstract

The widespread use of accounting information by investors and financial analysts to help value stocks creates an incentive for managers to manipulate earnings in an attempt to influence short-term stock price performance. This paper examines the role of earnings management in affecting a firm's cost of capital. Using an agency model with multiple firms whose cash flows are correlated, we demonstrate that the extent of earnings manipulation varies across the business cycle. Managers are more inclined to engage in manipulation during periods of economic expansion. Because of this dependence on the state of the economy, earnings manipulation influences a firm's cost of capital despite the forces of diversification. In particular, we find that manipulation reduces the correlation between the firms' cash flows and thus lowers the risk premium required by investors.

Keywords: Earnings management, Information manipulation, Cost of capital

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Strobl, Günter, Earnings Manipulation and the Cost of Capital (March 18, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1364282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1364282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Oren Bar-Gill , Lucian A. Bebchuk
Misreporting Corporate Performance
Harvard Law and Economics Discussion Paper No. 400 Pages: 45 Posted: 7 Dec 2002 Last revised: 8 May 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J S Demski
Performance Measure Manipulation , volume 15 , p. 261 - 285 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R A Dye
Earnings Management in an Overlapping Generations Model
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 195 - 235 Posted: 1988
Crossref
J H Evans , S S Sridhar
Multiple Control Systems, Accrual Accounting, and Earnings Management
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 45 - 65 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
620
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,319
RANK
98,886
26 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Cares About Auditor Reputation?

By Jan Barton

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies