Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Accounting Report Quality on the Bias in and Likelihood of Management Disclosures

50 Pages Posted: 6 May 2009

Young K. Kwon

University of Illinois - College of Business

Paul Newman

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Yoonseok Zang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: Aprl 28, 2009

Abstract

The central focus of this paper is on how the quality of anticipated mandatory accounting reports affects the bias in and likelihood of voluntary management disclosures. Our model integrates two paradigms used to analyze management disclosures, those in which managers choose to disclose or not when disclosures must be truthful, and those in which managers choose the extent of bias when disclosures always occur. Thus, we incorporate both proprietary (firm-wide) costs of disclosures and personal costs of biasing. In our model, the manager endogenously determines both whether to disclose and, if disclosure occurs, how much to bias the disclosure. We find that increases in the quality of mandatory accounting reports decrease the bias in management disclosures because investors rely relatively less on the disclosures in determining the firm’s value. Further, as the quality of accounting reports increases, the probability of management disclosures also increases because the cost to the manager of biasing the disclosures decreases. Finally, we show that the manager may prefer low to high quality mandatory accounting reports when the proprietary costs of disclosures are large or the manager’s stock-based incentives are large relative to the personal cost of biasing.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, mandatory disclosure, bias, accounting quality

JEL Classification: M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Kwon, Young K. and Newman, Donald Paul and Zang, Yoonseok, The Effects of Accounting Report Quality on the Bias in and Likelihood of Management Disclosures (Aprl 28, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1399863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1399863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Financial Reporting and Supplemental Voluntary Disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , p. 885 - 913 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Core
A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature: Discussion
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , p. 441 - 456 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Dye
Disclosure of Nonproprietary Information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , p. 123 - 145 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Dye
An Evaluation of "Essays on Disclosure" and the Disclosure Literature in Accounting
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 32 , p. 181 - 235 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
456
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,077
RANK
144,892
4 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reliability-Relevance Trade-Offs and the Efficiency of Aggregation

By Ronald A. Dye and Sri S. Sridhar

Stock Price, Earnings and Book Value in Managerial Performance Measures

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Imprecision in Accounting Measurement: Can it Be Value Enhancing?

By Chandra Kanodia, Rajdeep Singh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies