Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Level Playing Fields in Regulated Network Industries: Cost-Based Access Pricing, Depreciation, and Capacity Choice

29 Pages Posted: 27 May 2009 Last revised: 13 Dec 2009

Sabine Böckem

University of Basel

Ulf Schiller

University of Basel

Date Written: October 20, 2009

Abstract

We investigate cost-based access pricing in regulated network industries. Building on recent progress in the accounting literature, we show that a regulator must choose a particular depreciation schedule, namely, relative replacement cost depreciation in order to prevent the network provider from playing manipulative games with the cost-based access price. We then show that the network provider is put at a strategic disadvantage if the regulator sets the access price equal to long-run incremental costs and the downstream market is symmetric. This result may be understood by looking at strategic interaction in the downstream market where both firms are better off if they behave “softly”. If the regulator sets a low access price, he commits the downstream competitor to price aggressively. Then, the entire burden of softening competition must be borne by the network provider. Finally, since consumer prices are decreasing in the access price, we conclude that the regulator faces a tradeoff between low consumer prices and a level playing field on the downstream market.

Keywords: access pricing, depreciation

JEL Classification: M40, M46, D40

Suggested Citation:

Böckem, Sabine and Schiller, Ulf, Level Playing Fields in Regulated Network Industries: Cost-Based Access Pricing, Depreciation, and Capacity Choice (October 20, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1410047 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1410047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Michael Alles , Srikant Datar
Strategic Transfer Pricing , volume 44 , p. 451 - 461 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Mark Armstrong , David E M Sappington
Regulation, Competition, and Liberalization , volume 44 , p. 325 - 366 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Kenneth Arrow
Optimal Capital Policy, the Cost of Capital, and Myopic Decision Rules
Annals of the Institute of Statistical Mathematics , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 21 - 30 Posted: 1964
Crossref
Tim Baldenius
Intrafirm trade, bargaining power, and specific investments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 5 , p. 27 - 56 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,896
RANK
355,741
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Short-Run Capacity Planning and Pricing Under Uncertainty

By Robert F. Göx

Capacity Planning and Pricing Under Uncertainty

By Robert F. Göx

The Impact of Cost Based Pricing Rules on Capacity Planning Under Uncertainty

By Robert F. Göx

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies