Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Signaling Theory of Accounting Conservatism

50 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2009 Last revised: 3 Dec 2009

Richard Zhe Wang

Eastern Illinois University

Ciaran Ó Hogartaigh

University College Dublin (UCD) - College of Business and Law

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: June 6, 2009

Abstract

In this paper, we offer a new theory for the economic demand of accounting conservatism, which emphasizes the signaling role of conservatism in a debt market with asymmetric information. In our model, accounting conservatism serves as a signal by which the borrower firm can convey their private information about its own operating risk to the lenders, prior to signing the debt contract. In developing this signaling theory of conservatism, our paper achieves two major outcomes: (1) we analytically derive four basic properties of accounting conservatism, based on Basu's (1997) asymmetric timeliness of earnings definition of conservatism; (2) we develop a signaling model of the debt market, where accounting conservatism serves as a signaling device.

Our conservatism-signaling model has a dominant separating equilibrium, in which the low risk firms choose a high level of conservatism and the high risk firms choose a low (zero) level of conservatism. We show that this is the only stable equilibrium in our model that can pass Cho and Kreps's Intuitive Criterion (1987). Our results indicate that conservatism benefits the debt market by reducing the information asymmetry in the debt market.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, Basu, asymmetric timeliness, risk, signaling, game theory

JEL Classification: G82, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Richard Zhe and Ó Hogartaigh, Ciaran and van Zijl, Tony, A Signaling Theory of Accounting Conservatism (June 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1415305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1415305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A S Ahmed , K B Bruce , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividendspolicy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Ray Ball , Gil Sadka , Ashok Robin
Is Financial Reporting Shaped by Equity Markets or by Debt Markets? An International Study of Timeliness and Conservatism
Pages: 54 Posted: 8 May 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,197
RANK
13,609
3 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies