Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Use of an Information System

39 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2009 Last revised: 11 Dec 2009

Sabine Böckem

University of Basel

Ulf Schiller

University of Basel

Date Written: December 6, 2009

Abstract

This paper studies the influence of a manager's pre-decision use of an information system on the central office's decision to provide such a system in the first place. At the outset, the manager is ignorant about the cost of an investment project. Higher effort when using the information system raises the probability that the manager is informed at the stage of the investment proposal. Then, the central office must make the project approval decision without knowing whether it faces an informed or an ignorant manager.

We derive three new results. First, we compare the central office's hurdle rates in the cases with and without a potentially ignorant manager. We show that the central office imposes a higher hurdle rate if the manager might be ignorant. Second, if the expected net present value is high (low), the manager's effort when using the information system is higher (lower) than in the First Best solution. Third, the central office strategically provides no information system if the expected net present value of the investment project exceeds a cutoff value such that even an ignorant manager's investment proposal would be approved.

Keywords: capital budgeting, managerial slack, hold-up, use of an information system

JEL Classification: D8, M4

Suggested Citation:

Böckem, Sabine and Schiller, Ulf, Managerial Use of an Information System (December 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Rick Antle , Peter Bogetoft , Andrew W Stark
Selection from many investments with managerial private information
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 397 - 418 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Rick Antle , Gary D Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Rick Antle , John Fellingham
Information rents and preferences among information systems in a model of resource allocation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 41 - 58 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Anil Arya , John Fellingham , Jonathan Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital budgeting, the hold-up problem, and information system design
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,441
RANK
125,691
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Providing Managerial Incentives: Cash Flows Versus Accrual Accounting

By Stefan J. Reichelstein

Accrual-Based Compensation, Depreciation and Investment Decisions

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Controlling Investment Decisions: Depreciation- and Capital Charges

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies