Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Response to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's and the International Accounting Standard Board's Joint Discussion Paper Entitled, 'Preliminary Views on Revenue Recognition in Contracts with Customers'

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2010

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-682

Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 37-09

19 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2009 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013

Robert H. Colson

Grant Thornton LLP

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

James A. Ohlson

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

Gary Previts

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Thomas L. Stober

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Ross L. Watts

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: July 2, 2009

Abstract

The FASB and the IASB recently issued a joint discussion paper entitled, Preliminary Views on Revenue Recognition in Contracts with Customers. The Boards requested comments on whether their proposed model for revenue recognition would improve the usefulness of the financial statement information for financial decision makers. This paper sets forth the AAA's Financial Accounting Standards Committee's responses to several of the Boards' specific questions. In summary, we support the Boards' proposed comprehensive revenue recognition standard based on the following options: (1) the customer consideration approach (based on initial contract price measurement); (2) no recognition of revenue at contract inception (by assigning the initial contract price to performance obligations); (3) allocation of the transaction price to multiple performance obligations based on the relative stand-alone prices of each performance obligation. We also recommend that the Boards carefully consider the following clarifications as they develop the final exposure draft. The definition of a contract should include the words legally enforceable to describe the contract. A performance obligation must be verifiable. While the transfer of an asset to the customer or the acceptance of a service by the customer normally signals the recognition of revenue, we encourage the Boards to carefully consider situations (like long-term construction or mining) when the completion of intermediate performance obligations could trigger revenue recognition prior to the transfer of title. Absent special consideration of these situations, companies may be forced to re-write contracts in sub-optimal ways in an effort to recognize revenue continuously throughout a long-term construction project or in the process of mining or farming. Consider the difficulties that may arise in allocating the initial transaction price to multiple performance obligation contracts when the individual performance obligations are not normally sold on a stand-alone basis.

Keywords: Financial Accounting Standards Board, International Accounting Standards Board, Revenue Recognition, Contracts

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Colson, Robert H. and Bloomfield, Robert J. and Christensen, Theodore E. and Jamal, Karim and Moehrle, Stephen R. and Ohlson, James A. and Penman, Stephen H. and Previts, Gary J. and Stober, Thomas L. and Sunder, Shyam and Watts, Ross L., Response to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's and the International Accounting Standard Board's Joint Discussion Paper Entitled, 'Preliminary Views on Revenue Recognition in Contracts with Customers' (July 2, 2009). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2010, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-682, Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 37-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1429041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1429041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J Altamuro , A Beatty , J Weber
The effects of accelerated revenue recognition on earnings management and earnings informativeness: Evidence from SEC staff accounting bulletin 101
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Kirsten L. Anderson , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Effect of 10k Restatements on Firm Value, Information Asymmetries, and Investors' Reliance on Earnings
Pages: 30 Posted: 17 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Bowen , A Davis , S Rajgopal
Determinants of revenue-reporting practices for internet firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 19 , p. 523 - 562 Posted: 2002
Crossref
H Christensen , V Nikolaev
Who uses fair value accounting for non-financial assets after IFRS adoption, Working paper
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori
'Effective Profit Rate Method’ and Revenue Recognition of Islamic Banks: Risk Sharing or Risk Transfer?
27 Pages · Posted: 27 Jun 2016 · Downloads: 502
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,767
RANK
34,874
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies