Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Capture by Fossil Fuel Power Plants: An Economic Analysis

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 2033

39 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2009 Last revised: 21 Dec 2009

Ozge Islegen

Independent

Stefan J. Reichelstein

Stanford University - Stanford Graduate School of Business; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 19, 2009

Abstract

For fossil fuel power plants to be built in the future, carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies offer the potential for significant reductions in CO2 emissions. We examine the break-even value for CCS adoptions, that is, the critical value in the charge for CO2 emissions that would justify investment in CCS capabilities. Our analysis takes explicitly into account that the supply of electricity at the wholesale level (generation) is organized competitively in some U.S. jurisdictions, while in others a regulated utility provides integrated generation and distribution services. For either market structure, we find that emissions charges in the range of $25-$30 per tonne of CO2 would be the break-even value for adopting CCS capabilities at new coal-fired power plants. The corresponding break-even values for natural gas plants are substantially higher, near $60 per tonne. Our break-even estimates serve as a basis for projecting the change in electricity prices once carbon emissions become costly. CCS capabilities effectively put an upper bound on the rise in electricity prices. We estimate this bound to be near 30% at the retail level for both coal and natural gas plants. In contrast to the competitive power supply scenario, however, these price increases materialize only gradually for a regulated utility. The delay in price adjustments reflects that for regulated firms the basis for setting product prices is historical cost, rather than current cost.

Keywords: cost accounting, regulations, environmental protection

JEL Classification: Q3, Q4

Suggested Citation:

Islegen, Ozge and Reichelstein, Stefan J., Carbon Capture by Fossil Fuel Power Plants: An Economic Analysis (December 19, 2009). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 2033, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1443478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1443478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Afp
Obama Confident US Will Have Cap-and-Trade Law Posted: 2009
M Al-Juaied , A Witmore
Realistic Costs of Carbon Capture Posted: 2009
Crossref
K J Arrow
Optimal Capital Policy, Cost of Capital and Myopic Decision Rules
Annals of the Institute of Statistical Mathematics , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 30 Posted: 1964
Crossref
K J Arrow
Global Climate Change: A Challenge to Policy
The Economists' Voice , volume 4 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,362
RANK
120,270
9 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Depreciation Rules and the Relation Between Marginal and Historical Cost

By Madhav V. Rajan and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Depreciation Rules and the Relation Between Marginal and Historical Cost

By Madhav V. Rajan and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Macroeconomic Variables and the E/P Ratio

By Prem C. Jain and Joshua G. Rosett

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies