Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recessions and Product Costing

33 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2009

William Novshek

Purdue University - Department of Economics

Lynda Thoman

Purdue University

Date Written: August 17, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines product costing in a recessionary environment where firms have excess capacity and uncertain demand for their products. If a firm wants to determine prices and production quantities for a new product, the theory is straightforward: any incremental cost should be allocated to the product. With a recessionary environment, and uncertain demand for our products, we demonstrate that the incremental costs include fixed costs that are common to several products. However, in contrast to practice, the allocation base should be based on the “relative viability,” or demand for the product and not any measure of the product’s “usage” of the common fixed resources. Thus, it is appropriate to allocate common administrative costs to products, but mature stable products should be allocated more of the administrative costs than novel, new products whose future is uncertain. In addition, in some circumstances it is optimal to allocate fixed costs which are common to one set of products to a product outside of that set; for example, the fixed licensing costs for products A and B may be allocated to new product C. The optimal cost allocation is independent of the market structure; it applies to two firms bidding on a contract, to a monopoly market, or an oligopoly market.

Keywords: Allocations, fixed costs, pricing, demand uncertainty

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Novshek, William and Thoman, Lynda, Recessions and Product Costing (August 17, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1456378 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1456378
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
B V Balachandran , L Li , R P Magee
On the Allocation of Fixed and Variable Costs from Service Departments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 164 - 185
Crossref
K R Balachandran , B N Srinidhi
A Rationale for Fixed Charge Application
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 169 Posted: 1987
Crossref
R Balakrishnan , K Sivaramakrishnan
A Critical Overview of the Use of Full-Cost Data for Planning and Pricing
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 3 - 31 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R D Banker , S Datar , S Kekre
Relevant Costs, Congestion, and Stochasticity in Production Environments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 10 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 171 - 197
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,548
RANK
618,599
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies