Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and Performance Covenants: A Signaling Approach

AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

54 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2009 Last revised: 9 Aug 2014

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Yiwei Dou

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Baohua Xin

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 26, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the private debt contracting relation between performance covenants and conservative accounting under asymmetric information. Asymmetric information is characterized by borrowers’ proclivity to appropriate wealth from lenders to themselves. We find that accounting conservatism and performance covenants act as complements to signal borrowers’ commitment not to appropriate wealth from lenders in the high information asymmetry regime. No such relation obtains in the low information asymmetry regime. We further show that in the high information asymmetry regime, borrowers with high levels of conservatism and tight performance covenants generally enjoy lower interest rate spreads in comparison to borrowers with low levels of conservatism and loose performance covenants. Consistent with our signaling theory, we document that borrowers with high levels of conservatism and tight performance covenants in the high information asymmetry regime are less likely to appropriate wealth from lenders to themselves. Our empirical results are robust to alternative measures of conservatism and covenant restrictiveness.

Keywords: Information asymmetry; accounting conservatism; performance covenants; signaling; wealth appropriation

JEL Classification: M41, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Chen, Feng and Dou, Yiwei and Xin, Baohua, Accounting Conservatism and Performance Covenants: A Signaling Approach (June 26, 2014). AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1463573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1463573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball
The firm as a specialist contracting intermediary: Applications to accounting and auditing Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
982
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,494
RANK
45,758
7 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Large-Sample Evidence on the Debt Covenant Hypothesis

By Ilia D. Dichev and Douglas J. Skinner

How Does Financing Impact Investment? The Role of Debt Covenants

By Sudheer Chava and Michael R. Roberts

Syndicated Loans

By Steven A. Dennis and Donald J. Mullineaux

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies