Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prudence Demands Conservatism

AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

39 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2009

Michael Kirschenheiter

College of Business Administration University of Illinois at Chicago

Ram T.S. Ramakrishnan

University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

We define accounting information systems as conditionally conservative if they produce finer information at lower expected earnings levels. We then study the preference for differing levels of conditional conservatism among decision-maker(DM)'s with varying attributes including risk aversion and prudence. Similar to risk aversion, prudence is a metric based on DM's indirect utility that measures the sensitivity of DM's' decisions to changes in risk; prudent DM's save more as income becomes riskier. In a model of precautionary savings with information, we show that prudent DM's (those with positive prudence measures) prefer more conservative accounting systems, that imprudent DM's (those with negative prudence measures) prefer liberal accounting systems. We also show that conservative accounting may be preferred to a perfect information system if they are costly. We provide cases demonstrating the generality of our results, including examples where conservatism is preferred with increasing, constant and decreasing risk aversion.

Keywords: Prudence, Consevatism, Accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kirschenheiter, Michael and Ramakrishnan, Ram T.S., Prudence Demands Conservatism (September 1, 2009). AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1466177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1466177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Antle , R Lambert
Accounting Loss Functions and Induced Preferences for Conservatism
Economic Analysis of Information and Contracts: Essays in Honor of John. E. Butterworth Posted: 1988
Crossref
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor -client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 2 , issue 9 , p. 31 - 59 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Mark Bagnoli , Susan Watts
Conservative Accounting Choices
Management Science , volume 51 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005-05
Crossref
Ray Ball , Gil Sadka , Ashok Robin
Is Financial Reporting Shaped by Equity Markets or by Debt Markets? An International Study of Timeliness and Conservatism
Pages: 54 Posted: 8 May 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,227
RANK
147,479
4 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies