Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meeting Company-Issued Guidance and Management Guidance Strategy

UIC College of Business Administration Research Paper No. 10-07

46 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2009 Last revised: 9 Dec 2015

Ram T.S. Ramakrishnan

University of Illinois at Chicago

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Date Written: December 8, 2015

Abstract

We analyze the rationale for the market rewarding accurate management earnings guidance. We postulate that firms with better quality of information before investment also have better quality of information after investment but before earnings are realized. This late-interim information is of no value for production-investment decisions; however, by issuing accurate guidance, firms can signal a high-quality information environment, leading to better investment decisions in the future. We show that guidance accomplishment predicts future performance even if current earnings are not statistically correlated to future earnings. A manager interested in short-term market value tends to issue optimistic earnings guidance in equilibrium. Since the market rewards accurate guidance, though the management guidance is not verifiable, the equilibrium market valuation still induces the manager to issue informative guidance that enhances the investment efficiency through information quality discovery process.

Keywords: earnings guidance, information quality, investment efficiency

JEL Classification: M43, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ramakrishnan, Ram T.S. and Wen, Xiaoyan, Meeting Company-Issued Guidance and Management Guidance Strategy (December 8, 2015). UIC College of Business Administration Research Paper No. 10-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1470880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1470880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Ali , S Kallapur
Securities Price Consequences of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Related Events
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , p. 431 - 60 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Conservative Accounting Choices. Management Science , volume 51 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T Baldenius , N Melumad , X Meng
Board composition and CEO power
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 112 , p. 53 - 68 Posted: 2014
Crossref
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,117
RANK
248,977
4 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Reliability-Relevance Trade-Offs and the Efficiency of Aggregation

By Ronald A. Dye and Sri S. Sridhar

Stock Price, Earnings and Book Value in Managerial Performance Measures

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Imprecision in Accounting Measurement: Can it Be Value Enhancing?

By Chandra Kanodia, Rajdeep Singh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies