Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Trade-Offs in the Fair Value Debate

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 09-35

35 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2009 Last revised: 27 Mar 2010

Haresh Sapra

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Date Written: March 19, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, I provide two general insights that are useful in evaluating the economic trade-offs of alternative accounting measurement rules. First, when there are multiple imperfections in the world, restricting a strict subset of it need not always improve welfare. Second, a firm is not a black box that operates independently of the measurement environment. Measuring a firm’s operations affects the firm’s actions which, in turn, affect the underlying distribution of cash flows that is being measured.

Using these two insights, I discuss the economic consequences of accounting measurement rules that strive for greater transparency. In particular, I focus on the costs and benefits of fair value accounting and its implications for financial stability.

Keywords: Amplification Mechanism, Fair Value Accounting, Financial Stability, Historical Cost Accounting

JEL Classification: D52, G12, G21, G22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sapra, Haresh, The Economic Trade-Offs in the Fair Value Debate (March 19, 2010). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 09-35, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1481777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1481777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,006
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,441
RANK
51,930
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies