Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Can Insurers Offer Products that Dominate Delayed Old-Age Pension Benefit Claiming?

Posted: 4 Nov 2009

Lisanne Sanders

Tilburg University - CentER for Economic Research; Netspar

Anja De Waegenaere

Tilburg University - Department of Econometrics & OR, Netspar, and CentER

Theo Nijman

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: November 3, 2009

Abstract

It is common practice for pension schemes to offer their participants the option to delay benefit claiming until after the normal retirement age and adjust the annual benefit level as a result. This adjustment is often not actuarially neutral with respect to the age at which benefits are claimed. The degree of actuarial nonequivalence varies by interest rate as well as individual characteristics such as gender and social status. In this paper, we show that actuarial nonequivalence can imply that deferring benefit claiming is suboptimal, irrespective of the preferences of the individual. Specifically, we derive preference-free conditions under which delaying benefit claiming is dominated by claiming benefits early, and using them to buy super replicating annuity products from an insurance company. Annuity products will be designed with favorable terms for insurers which individuals prefer above deferred benefit claiming. The degree of actuarial nonequivalence in many pension schemes is such that dominating strategies exist even when the purchase of annuities would be significantly more costly than what is currently observed. Our results therefore suggest that both individuals and issuers of annuities can benefit from the actuarial nonequivalence inherent in many public pension schemes and pension funds. Even under unconditional actuarial equivalence, dominating strategies may well be available at the individual level if the claim adjustment is not interest rate dependent or if the pricing of annuities can be conditional on characteristics like gender and education level of the individual.

Suggested Citation:

Sanders, Lisanne and Sanders, Lisanne and De Waegenaere, Anja M.B. and Nijman, Theo E., When Can Insurers Offer Products that Dominate Delayed Old-Age Pension Benefit Claiming? (November 3, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1499163
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
831
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies