Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Multi-Period Game Theoretic Model of Venture Capitalists and Entrepreneurs

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign's Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Historical Research Reference in Entrepreneurship

Posted: 24 Nov 2009

Arieh Gavious

Ono Academic College; Ben-Gurion University

Ramy Elitzur

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

As venture capitalists (VCs) have an important role in financial start-ups, most studies have focused on venture capital as a short-term source of financing. The authors examine the relation between a VC and an entrepreneur in a multi-period game in which the contract is set at the beginning of the game, and follows the relation from its start to the end. This multi-period game theoretic model focuses on the problem of moral hazard – the entrepreneur's hidden effort and how a VC can cope with it, using staged investments. First a game between a VC and an entrepreneur is presented, in which the VC is unable to notice the entrepreneur’s effort. Next, a multi-period game between the parties is examined, where the contract is established at the beginning of the multi-period game. The results of the model are presented, and several propositions and theorems are advanced. The multi-period aspects of the model allow for deriving the strategic behavior of the VCs and entrepreneurs over time. The model is consistent with reality, where the average duration of the relation between venture capitalists and entrepreneurs is several years and the investment is made in stages. The study provides insights on optimal contracts and the characterization of an endogenous exit point. It is suggested that the optimal incentive scheme back load all incentive payments to the entrepreneur, and a straight debt contract is optimal in venture financing. Recommendations are made for further studies on the contracts among VCs who syndicate together, as well as the bargaining between the VC and the entrepreneur.(CBS)

Keywords: Staged investments, Contracts & agreements, Moral hazard problem, Organizational behavior, Venture capital, Game theory, Closing firms, Strategic planning, Venture capitalists, Incentives

Suggested Citation:

Gavious, Arieh and Elitzur, Ramy, A Multi-Period Game Theoretic Model of Venture Capitalists and Entrepreneurs (2003). University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign's Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Historical Research Reference in Entrepreneurship, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1510547
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,784
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies