Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Approaches to Revenue Recognition and Common Sense

18 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2009

David Anthony Procházka

University of Economics, Prague

Date Written: December 4, 2009

Abstract

The paper outlines basic features of revenue recognition practice under IFRS and US GAAP. The revenues usually represent the greatest single item reported in the financial statements. The current guidance on revenue recognition suffers from some weaknesses and inconsistencies. Finding the solution to these problems is a subject of joint IASB’s and FASB’s Revenue Recognition Project. The main aim of Revenue Recognition Project is to remove inconsistency and to create a comprehensive standard on revenue recognition that would apply to all possible revenue-generating transactions. Unfortunately, there exist some conflicts regarding the measurement of revenue. The advantages and disadvantages of fair value and allocated customer consideration amount model are analysed from the point of users’ information need usefulness. Background for this evaluation is derived from the empirical experiment.

Keywords: IASB, FASB, IFRIC 13, Revenue Recognition Project, Allocated consideration amount model, Fair value model

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Prochazka, David Anthony, New Approaches to Revenue Recognition and Common Sense (December 4, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1518378 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1518378
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J Altamuro , A L Beatty , J Weber
The Effect of Accelerated Revenue Recognition on Earnings Management and Earnings Informativeness: Evidence from SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 403 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A R Belkaoui
Accounting Theory Posted: 2004
J Bokšová
Účetnictví II. Praha: Institut svazu účetních Posted: 2004
Crossref
R J Chambers
Accounting, Evaluation and Economic Behavior. Houston: Scholars Book, 1974 (reprinted)
Load more
1 Citations
Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori
'Effective Profit Rate Method’ and Revenue Recognition of Islamic Banks: Risk Sharing or Risk Transfer?
27 Pages · Posted: 27 Jun 2016 · Downloads: 502
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
795
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,954
RANK
71,603
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies