Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relative Efficiency of Clawback Provisions in Compensation Contracts

Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2011 Paper

43 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2010 Last revised: 1 Dec 2010

Carolyn B. Levine

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Michael J. Smith

Boston University School of Management

Date Written: November 30, 2009

Abstract

Clawbacks are retractions of previously-awarded bonuses. In our model, the manager takes a first-period effort that stochastically determines a first-period signal and a second-period cash flow. Both the cash flow and the signal are noisy indicators of effort. The agent can manipulate the signal, i.e., manage earnings. The no-clawback contract pays the agent in the first period for a good signal. The clawback contract also rewards the good signal, but the payment is in the second period and may be lower if the cash realization is low. The agent is impatient and prefers a first-period payment. We find that the no-clawback contract dominates the clawback contract if the cash realization is relatively noisy, earnings management is difficult, or the agent is very impatient. Earnings management may be optimal even though the actual cash realization is contractible. A contract involving restricted stock is always dominated by the clawback contract. The results demonstrate that the optimal ex ante alignment of manager and shareholder interests does not imply perfect ex post alignment of manager and shareholder payoffs.

Keywords: executive compensation, earnings management, clawback

JEL Classification: M40, J33

Suggested Citation:

Levine, Carolyn B. and Smith, Michael J., The Relative Efficiency of Clawback Provisions in Compensation Contracts (November 30, 2009). Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2011 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1531203 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1531203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the revelation principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
Q Chen , T Hemmer , Y Zhang
On the relation between conservatism in accounting standards and incentives for earnings management
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 541 - 564 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Demski , H Frimor
Performance measure garbling under renegotiation in multi-period agencies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 37 , p. 1887 - 214 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Dutta , F Gigler
The effect of earnings forecasts on earnings management
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 613 - 630 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,628
RANK
118,026
3 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Firm-Initiated Clawback Provisions on Earnings Quality and Auditor Behavior

By Lilian H. Chan, Kevin C. W. Chen, ...

Recovering Bonuses After Restated Financials: Adopting Clawback Provisions

By Noel D. Addy, Xiaoyan Chu, ...

Does Voluntary Adoption of a Clawback Provision Improve Financial Reporting Quality?

By Ed Dehaan, Frank D. Hodge, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies