Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Solicited and Unsolicited Credit Ratings

Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2010 Last revised: 22 Oct 2013

Paolo Fulghieri

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Günter Strobl

University of Vienna - Department of Finance

Han Xia

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: June 26, 2013

Abstract

This paper develops a dynamic rational expectations model of the credit rating process, incorporating three critical elements of this industry: (i) the rating agencies' ability to misreport the issuer's credit quality, (ii) their ability to issue unsolicited ratings, and (iii) their reputational concerns. We analyze the incentives of credit rating agencies to issue unsolicited credit ratings and the effects of this practice on the agencies' rating strategies. We find that the issuance of unfavorable unsolicited credit ratings enables rating agencies to extract higher fees from issuers by credibly threatening to punish those that refuse to acquire a rating. Also, issuing unfavorable unsolicited ratings increases the rating agencies' reputation by demonstrating to investors that they resist the temptation to issue inflated ratings. In equilibrium, unsolicited credit ratings are lower than solicited ratings, because all favorable ratings are solicited; however, they do not have a downward bias. We show that, under certain conditions, a credit rating system that incorporates unsolicited ratings leads to more stringent rating standards.

Keywords: Credit rating agencies, Unsolicited credit ratings, Reputation

JEL Classification: D82, G24

Suggested Citation:

Fulghieri, Paolo and Strobl, Günter and Xia, Han, The Economics of Solicited and Unsolicited Credit Ratings (June 26, 2013). Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1572059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1572059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D Avramov , T Chordia , G Jostova , A Philipov
Anomalies and Financial Distress
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2013
Crossref
C E Bannier , P Behr , A Güttler
Rating Opaque Borrowers: Why Are Unsolicited Ratings Lower?
Review of Finance , volume 14 , p. 263 - 294 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Bolton , X Freixas , J Shapiro
The Credit Ratings Game
Journal of Finance , volume 67 , p. 85 - 112 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T J Chemmanur , P Fulghieri
Investment Bank Reputation, Information Production, and Financial Intermediation
Journal of Finance , volume 49 , p. 57 - 59 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
695
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,780
RANK
85,416
41 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Search; Learning; Information Costs & Specific Knowledge; Expectation & Speculation eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Credit Ratings Game

By Patrick Bolton, Xavier Freixas, ...

The Credit Ratings Game

By Patrick Bolton, Xavier Freixas, ...

The Credit Ratings Game

By Patrick Bolton, Xavier Freixas, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies