Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ranking Performance Measures in Multi-Task Agencies

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 31 Mar 2010

Peter O. Christensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance

Florin Sabac

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Jie (Joyce) Tian

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 9, 2009

Abstract

We derive sufficient conditions for ranking performance evaluation systems in multi-task agency models (using both optimal and linear contracts) in terms of a second-order stochastic dominance (SSD) condition on the likelihood ratios. The SSD condition can be replaced by a variance-covariance matrix of likelihood ratios (VCM) condition when the utility function is square-root, the performance measures are normally distributed, and for LEN models. We identify existing results derived under the LEN assumptions that rely on the VCM condition and, thus, also hold for optimal contracts.

Keywords: Likelihood ratios, Multiple tasks, LEN

JEL Classification: M46

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Peter Ove and Sabac, Florin and Tian, Jie (Joyce), Ranking Performance Measures in Multi-Task Agencies (December 9, 2009). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1578815
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,738
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies