Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Signaling Role of Accounting Conservatism in Debt Contracting

46 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2010 Last revised: 15 Aug 2010

Ying-Ju Chen

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information Systems, Business Statistics and Operations Management

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Date Written: August 15, 2010

Abstract

TThere has been debate over the economic consequences of accounting conservatism in debt contracting. We contribute to this debate by arguing that the prospect of signaling project return may give rise to the demand for conservative accounting, even though it may not improve contracting efficiency ex post. The empirical evidence of the negative correlation between interest rates and conservative accounting may be explained by the heterogeneity among firms, such as riskiness, leverage and the strength of balance sheet. While debt covenants may also serve as a signaling device, they lead to a lower Type-I error, but a higher Type-II error, than signaling via accounting conservatism. Our results further indicate that conditional conservatism may either alleviate or amplify the distortion required for the signaling purpose.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, debt covenants, signaling

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G21, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ying-Ju and Deng, Mingcherng, The Signaling Role of Accounting Conservatism in Debt Contracting (August 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1590577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1590577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Because her payoff is strictly smaller, the above incentive compatibility constraint (25) also ensures that the high-type entrepreneur will not choose the debt covenant signaling
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
G Akerlof
The market for" lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Chris S. Armstrong , Wayne R. Guay , Joseph Peter Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Pages: 174 Posted: 21 Mar 2010 Last revised: 16 Nov 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
10 Citations
Lin Nan , Xiaoyan Wen
Financing and Investment Efficiency, Information Quality, and Accounting Biases
UIC College of Business Administration Research Paper No. 10-14 · 35 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2010 · Last revised: 28 Nov 2013 · Downloads: 1,421
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Pingyang Gao
A measurement approach to conservatism and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 2-3 , p. 251 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Lin Nan , Xiaoyan Wen
Financing and Investment Efficiency, Information Quality, and Accounting Biases
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 9 , p. 2308 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Birgit Beinsen
Conservative accounting as a signaling device in debt covenants
Review of Managerial Science , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 801 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
731
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,108
RANK
80,060
10 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies