Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentive System Design Based on Accrual Accounting: A Summary and Analysis

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2010 Last revised: 28 Jul 2011

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Louis Velthuis

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

This paper provides a formal analysis on how to design accrual based incentive systems so that a manager’s and owner’s interests are properly aligned. We introduce a general framework to summarize the literature, provide various extensions to it, and point to some of its limitations. We characterize the entire class of goal-congruent and preference-similar incentive systems when the owner has perfect as well as imperfect information about the manager’s preferences. This allows us to show how compensation functions and performance measures are interrelated and to demonstrate what information must be incorporated into compensation functions and performance measures. We illustrate how robust these results are, especially with respect to gaming and transaction smoothing. Furthermore, we show how to produce consistent performance measures by capitalizing investment costs and constructing appropriate depreciation schedules. Finally, we analyze the flexibility of accrual- versus cash-based allocation rules and highlight connections to the notion of conservatism.

Keywords: Incentive Systems, Accrual Accounting, Goal-Congruence, Preference-Similarity

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Pfeiffer, Thomas and Velthuis, Louis J., Incentive System Design Based on Accrual Accounting: A Summary and Analysis (2009). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1590785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Consistent with the literature, we require under both frameworks (goal-congruence and preference-similarity) that the manager's and owner's investment decisions must coincide. Given the result above, it would be interesting to analyze a notion of imperfect matching in which
By concentrating our analysis on a single divisional manager our setting effectively ignores inter-company coordination problems that arise at different firm levels. For instance, if firms have to decide whether to acquire a common resource (corporate services, investments in R&D or capacity) or how to coordinate different hierarchy levels, the design of consistent incentive systems becomes significantly more complex because of strategic interactions among individual managers (see Arya
Dutta and Reichelstein Posted: 2004
analyze how such an aggregation scheme differs from Banker and Datar's (1989) aggregation rule
R Antle , P Bogetoft , A Stark
Incentive Problems and Investment Timing Options
Essays in Accounting Theory in Honor of Joel S Demski , p. 145 - 168 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,859
RANK
116,432
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Providing Managerial Incentives: Cash Flows Versus Accrual Accounting

By Stefan J. Reichelstein

Accrual-Based Compensation, Depreciation and Investment Decisions

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Controlling Investment Decisions: Depreciation- and Capital Charges

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies