Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Reporting, Overoptimism, and Litigation Risk

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2011-87

41 Pages Posted: 27 May 2010 Last revised: 21 Jun 2011

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Phillip C. Stocken

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 2011

Abstract

We examine how the threat of litigation affects an entrepreneur’s reporting behavior when the entrepreneur (i) can misrepresent his privately observed information, (ii) pays legal damages out of his own pocket, and (iii) is optimistic about the firm’s prospects relative to investors. We find higher expected legal penalties imposed on the culpable entrepreneur do not always cause the entrepreneur to be more cautious but instead can increase misreporting. We highlight how this relation depends crucially on the extent of entrepreneurial overoptimism, legal frictions, and the internal control environment.

Keywords: Disclosure, Overconfidence, Litigation Risk, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M46, M40

Suggested Citation:

Laux, Volker and Stocken, Phillip C., Managerial Reporting, Overoptimism, and Litigation Risk (May 2011). Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2011-87, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1616276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1616276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Alexander
Rethinking Damages in Securities Class Actions
Stanford Law Review , volume 48 , issue 6 , p. 1487 - 1537 Posted: 1996
Crossref
G Arabsheibani , D Meza , J Maloney , B Pearson
And a vision appeared unto them of great profit: evidence of self-deception among the selfemployed
Economics Letters , volume 67 , p. 35 - 41 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J H Arlen , W J Carney
Vicarious Liability for Fraud on Securities Markets: Theory and Evidence
University of Illinois Law Review , volume 1992 , issue 3 , p. 691 - 740 Posted: 1992
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The Effect of Legal Environment on Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Management Earnings Forecasts Issued in U.S. and Canadian Markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,412
RANK
202,123
18 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies