Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informativeness of Disclosures

65 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2010 Last revised: 17 Oct 2023

Tommy Stamland

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Finance

Date Written: June 5, 2010

Abstract

When a company strategically shapes the information it shares with the financial market, a clear presentation indicates good news. Precise information not only facilitates more accurate analysis, it also sends a strong signal. Strategic disclosures therefore work through two intertwined channels: signaling and direct analysis. I provide a model that shows these channels endogenously influence each other. This interaction may prevent informative disclosures, especially when business and reporting complexity is high. Enforcing disclosure mandates could paradoxically 1) eliminate the most informative equilibrium and 2) support the least informative equilibrium. These regulatory pitfalls become more pronounced in complex information environments. The model predictions align with the disclosure problem: it has proven difficult to craft regulation that promotes informative disclosures. To understand the disclosure problem, the model must allow for partially-informative signaling and analysis to uncover the channel interaction. Effective regulation should account for this interaction by emphasizing discretion, particularly in complex information environments.

Keywords: Disclosure Informativeness, Strategic Disclosure, Signaling, Analysis, Complexity, The Disclosure Problem

JEL Classification: C72, D82, G14, G3, K22, M4

Suggested Citation:

Stamland, Tommy, The Informativeness of Disclosures (June 5, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1621095 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1621095
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, product market competition, and strategic disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Voluntary Assurance of Voluntary CSR Disclosure
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 205 - 230 Posted: 2016
J S Banks , J Sobel
Equilibrium Selection in Signaling Games
Econometrica , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 661 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,646
RANK
336,212
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies