Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unintended Consequences of LIFO Repeal: The Case of the Oil Industry

Forthcoming, The Accounting Review, September 2012

Posted: 10 Jun 2010 Last revised: 23 Apr 2012

David A. Guenther

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Richard C. Sansing

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: June 9, 2010

Abstract

This study examines the effect on firm value of repealing the last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory method for tax purposes. Our model extends prior literature by determining quantities and prices in equilibrium rather than specifying them exogenously. We find that LIFO repeal could increase the future after-tax cash flows of firms that had used LIFO because the higher tax costs associated with FIFO result in lower equilibrium quantities and higher equilibrium output prices that increase pretax cash flows. We illustrate our model by examining inventory methods used by firms in the oil industry.

Keywords: LIFO, FIFO, tax incidence

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Guenther, David A. and Sansing, Richard C., Unintended Consequences of LIFO Repeal: The Case of the Oil Industry (June 9, 2010). Forthcoming, The Accounting Review, September 2012 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1622795 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1622795
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies