Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition of Accounting Standards, Comparability of Financial Information, and Critical Masses: An Evolutionary Approach

20 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2010

Christoph Kuhner

University of Cologne

Date Written: June 24, 2010

Abstract

In recent years, the remaining global standard setters of generally accepted accounting principles, IASB and FASB, have consented to harmonize their standards in the medium term with the aim of the emergence of one dominant global accounting standard. In accounting literature, however, it is argued that not necessarily the harmonisation of accounting standards, leading to one single “monopolistic” set of rules, will lead to an overall optimum of financial information quality. In contrast, it was suggested that, with greater probability, the mechanism of competition, that means: the persistence of several competing accounting standards, will emerge in the evolution of optimal financial information quality.

The paper will analyse the hypothesis of the expansion of the superior standard by competition between different accounting standards from the viewpoint of evolutionary game theory. The argument is based on a two Players/three strategies coordination game of the type “tender trap”. Players, i.e. firms which adopt a particular accounting standard, have the choice between three strategies: (i) adopting the “good” standard; (ii) adopting the “bad” standard and (iii) multiple strategy.

In the evolutionary game, two firms are randomly drawn from a great population and matched against each other. We analyse the evolutionary stability properties of the game as well as evolutionary dynamics starting from an out of equilibrium point. Evolutionary stable equilibria include the adoption of one single standard – “good” or “bad” – by the entire population. For the evolution towards the “good” or the “bad” equilibrium, critical masses play a crucial role, which is further analysed.

Among our results are the following: There is an equilibrium in which all three strategies (good, bad, multiple) coexist; but this equilibrium has not the property of evolutionary stability. There are two equilibria which own the property of evolutionary stability: (i) all members of the population adopting the good standard; (ii) all members of the population adopting the bad standard. Whether the “good” equilibrium or the “bad” equilibrium will finally evolve is dependent on critical masses of adopters. For the “good” equilibrium, the critical mass will be lower compared with the “bad” equilibrium. The role of multiple strategies as a trigger for the “good” equilibrium is ambiguous: Very low cost c will lead to very low critical masses for the “good” equilibrium; but there is a range, where positive but finite values of c will lead to higher critical masses in order to reach a “good” equilibrium, compared with a situation without the possibility of multiple strategies. If starting from an out-of-equilibrium point, the evolution moves towards the “good” equilibrium, the adoption of multiple strategies will expand on the medium term; if the evolution is towards a bad equilibrium, multiple strategies will soon decline in their relative weight.

The regulatory implications are ambiguous: With low adoption cost for multiple standards, it follows that the regulator should in tendency renounce enforcement of one single standard. With medium and high cost of multiple strategies, regulatory intervention in this sense may have a better legitimation. At the time, the temporary spread of multiple strategies may indicate a spontaneous evolution towards the Pareto-superior evolutionary stable equilibrium.

Keywords: Standard Competition, Accounting Standard Setting, Evolutionary Games, Critical Masses, Spontaneous Order

JEL Classification: C72, C73, D74, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kuhner, Christoph, Competition of Accounting Standards, Comparability of Financial Information, and Critical Masses: An Evolutionary Approach (June 24, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1641163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1641163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Ronald A Dye , Shyam Sunder
Why Not Allow the FASB and IASB Standards to Compete in the U.S.?
Accounting Horizons , volume 15 , issue 3 Posted: 2001-09
Crossref
Jürgen Eichberger
Game Theory for Economists Posted: 1993
Fasb/Iasb
Joint Statement Reaffirming the Commitment to Convergence and the Memorandum of Understanding Posted: 2009-11-05
Friedrich Hayek , August
On the Use of Knowledge in Society
American Economic Review, XXXV , issue 4 Posted: 1945
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,252
RANK
179,657
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies