Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure, Manipulation and Real Effects

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, 2012

42 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2010 Last revised: 11 Apr 2012

Anne Beyer

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Ilan Guttman

Leonard N. Stern School of Business, New York University; New York University - Stern Scholl of business

Date Written: April 5, 2012

Abstract

We study a model in which managers' disclosure and investment decisions are both endogenous and managers can manipulate their voluntary reports through (suboptimal) investment, financing or operating decisions. Managers are privately informed about the value of their firm and have incentives to voluntarily disclose information and manipulate their reports in order to obtain more favorable terms when issuing equity to finance a new profitable investment opportunity.

The model shows that treating managers' disclosure and investment decisions both as endogenous and allowing managers to manipulate their voluntary reports yields qualitatively different predictions than when the disclosure and investment decisions are considered separately and managers cannot engage in manipulation. The model predicts that managers' disclosure strategy is sometimes characterized by two distinct non-disclosure intervals (contrary to traditional threshold equilibria of voluntary disclosure models) and that managers with intermediate news sometimes forego the new profitable investment opportunity (in contrast to Myers and Majluf 1984). As such, the paper highlights the importance of considering the interdependencies between firms' disclosure and investment decisions and provides new empirical predictions.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, earnings management, investment decisions, cost of capital

JEL Classification: M43

Suggested Citation:

Beyer, Anne and Guttman, Ilan, Voluntary Disclosure, Manipulation and Real Effects (April 5, 2012). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1647808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Beyer
Capital Market Prices, Management Forecasts, and Earnings Management
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1713 - 1760 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A ; D Beyer , Cohen
T , B Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
R H Coase
The Nature of the Firm
Economica , volume 4 , p. 386 - 405 Posted: 1937
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,045
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,568
RANK
49,226
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reliability-Relevance Trade-Offs and the Efficiency of Aggregation

By Ronald A. Dye and Sri S. Sridhar

Stock Price, Earnings and Book Value in Managerial Performance Measures

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Imprecision in Accounting Measurement: Can it Be Value Enhancing?

By Chandra Kanodia, Rajdeep Singh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies