Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Firm Value and Corporate Governance

36 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2010

Benjamin E. Hermalin

University of California, Berkeley; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 3, 2010

Abstract

An impressive volume of careful empirical studies finds evidence that the strength of firms' corporate governance tends to be positively correlated with their financial performance; that is, firms that score higher on some measure of governance tend to outperform those which score worse. These findings are a puzzle insofar as we expect those who decide how a firm is organized, including its corporate governance, to do so in a manner that maximizes firm value subject to the relevant constraints. If the governance we observe is constrained optimal, then why, in equilibrium, should any correlation - positive or negative - exist between it and firm performance? This paper offers an answer. In doing so, the paper also makes predictions about the correlation between firm size and strength of governance, provides new explanations for the correlation between firm size and executive compensation, and provides insights into why empirical estimates of managerial incentives are often deemed too low.

Keywords: corporate governance, executive compensation, firm het- erogeneity, trends in governance

JEL Classification: D21, G30, L20

Suggested Citation:

Hermalin, Benjamin E., Understanding Firm Value and Corporate Governance (August 3, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1652907 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1652907
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Renée B Adams , E Benjamin , Michael S Hermalin , Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 59 - 108 Posted: 2010
Crossref
George P Baker , C Michael , Kevin J Jensen , Murphy
Compensation and Incentives: Practice vs. Theory
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 616 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Lucian Bebchuk , Alma Arye , Allen Cohen , Ferrell
What Matters in Corporate Governance?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Marco Becht , Patrick Bolton , Ailsa Röell
Corporate Governance and Control
The Handbook of the Economics of Finance Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
617
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,211
RANK
99,538
4 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies