Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Task Assignment and Variable Pay Ratio

AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

35 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2010 Last revised: 7 Dec 2010

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Anna Rohlfing-Bastian

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: December 6, 2010

Abstract

This paper employs a LEN-model with multiple tasks and multiple agents to investigate the decision of how to assign the responsibility for synergistic tasks in an environment where an aggregate performance measure is used for incentive design. Considering task assignment as an endogenous variable, we develop a simultaneous solution for the optimal task assignment and the managers’ compensation characterized by the variable pay ratio (i.e., variable pay in relation to total pay). Our analysis shows that a manager’s variable pay ratio depends on the number and type of tasks this manager has to perform, the compensation of other managers on the same hierarchical level, and how responsibility of tasks is assigned to them. For example, we find that a manager’s compensation structure is adjusted even if he is not directly affected by a task re-assignment decision. Hence, our results emphasize the interrelation of task assignment and incentive compensation and they suggest to control for firm-wide task assignments in empirical compensation studies.

Keywords: Task Assignment, Principal-Agent Analysis, Variable Pay Ratio

JEL Classification: M54, M41, D82, J41

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Christian and Rohlfing-Bastian, Anna, Task Assignment and Variable Pay Ratio (December 6, 2010). AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1655748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1655748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,440
RANK
364,455
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

A Theory of Firm Scope

By Oliver Hart and Bengt R. Holmström

A Theory of Firm Scope

By Oliver Hart and Bengt R. Holmström

Incentives, Information, and Organizational Form

By Yingyi Qian, Eric Maskin, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies