Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Information Asymmetry and Team Performance Measurement

30 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2010

Naomi Rothenberg

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: August 13, 2010

Abstract

This paper studies the effect of agents’ access to pre-decision information, depending on whether only group performance is rewarded or individual performance is rewarded. Pre-decision information only affects agents’ incentives, which in turn depend on the type of performance evaluation system. With public information and group performance measures, the principal prefers a perfect signal if the high productivity state is more informative, and otherwise prefers no information. With group measures, only team success is rewarded, but cooperation is more costly in the higher productive states when the high state is more informative, so the principal prefers to be able to distinguish the states. With individual performance measures, the principal can replicate the group performance measure or induce competition, and in both cases prefers no information. A private signal exacerbates the control problem, and generally, with either performance evaluation system, the principal prefers uninformed agents. However, if agents can become at least slightly informed, then with individual performance measures the principal is indifferent to the level of information conveyed in the signal. Individual performance measures better balance the incentive effects of private information. With group measures, by definition the principal is restricted to a cooperative performance based pay and always prefers the lowest level of information.

Keywords: Pre-decision information, teams, performance measurement, principal-agent

JEL Classification: M41, D82, M52, J33

Suggested Citation:

Rothenberg, Naomi, Optimal Information Asymmetry and Team Performance Measurement (August 13, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1658687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1658687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
S Baiman , J Evans
Pre-Decision Information and Participative Management Control Systems
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1983
Crossref
S Baiman , K Sivaramakrishnan
The Value of Private Pre-Decision Information in a Principal-Agent Context
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 747 - 766 Posted: 1991
R Bushman , R Indjejikian , M Penno
Private Predecision Information, Performance Measure Congruity, and the Value of Delegation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 587 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,726
RANK
401,016
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

CEO Overconfidence and Corporate Investment

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

CEO Overconfidence and Corporate Investment

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

Who Makes Acquisitions? CEO Overconfidence and the Market's Reaction

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies