Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Agency Theoretic Formulation of Organizational Control Theory

43 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2010

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Shaopeng Li

Independent

Jose M. Plehn-Dujowich

Powerlytics. Inc.

Date Written: August 16, 2010

Abstract

We propose an analytical model that integrates two parallel independent streams of the literature, agency theory and organizational control theory. In doing so, we provide new insights into agency theory by introducing the concept of a congruent agent, and new insights into organizational control theory by using contracting tools to model behavior and outcome forms of controls. We study outcome-based control, i.e. contracting on the outcome; behavior-based control, i.e. contracting on a signal of effort; and clan control. To interpret clan control in the context of agency theory, we draw from experimental evidence in behavioral economics by distinguishing between two types of agents: a self-interested agent, who behaves in the traditional fashion; and a congruent agent, who cares about the principal’s payoff, which can be viewed as a form of “social” preferences in behavioral economics and a form of clan control resulting from “socialization” in organization theory. Corresponding to Ouchi’s (1979) view of organizational control, we derive analytical conditions under which outcome-based control with a self-interested agent, behavior-based control with a self-interested agent, and clan control with a congruent agent are optimal. We make the following contributions. First, we introduce to agency theory a new form of organizational control based on shared values and goals. Second, we provide new insights to organization theory by modeling the structure of the optimal compensation contracts corresponding to each form of control and the properties of the conditions under which each form of control is optimal as they relate to the characteristics of the agency relationship.

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Li, Shaopeng and Plehn-Dujowich, Jose M., An Agency Theoretic Formulation of Organizational Control Theory (August 16, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1659969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1659969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
E Fehr , A Klein , K M Schmidt
Fairness and contract design
Econometrica , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 154 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Fehr , K M Schmidt
The economics of fairness, reciprocity and altruismexperimental evidence and new theories. Handbook on the Economics of Giving
Reciprocity and Altruism , volume 1 , p. 615 - 691 Posted: 2006
G Feltham , J Xie
Performance measure congruity and diversity in multi-task principal/agent relations
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 429 - 453 Posted: 1994
H Gintis
Strong reciprocity and human sociality
Journal of Theoretical Biology , volume 206 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
405
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,311
RANK
166,169
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Contractual Incompleteness as a Signal of Trust

By Florian Herold

Legitimacy of Control

By Wendelin Schnedler and Radovan Vadovic

Team Governance: Empowerment or Hierarchical Control

By Guido Friebel and Wendelin Schnedler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies