Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Screening Versus Sorting in a Principal-Agent Model with Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection

58 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2010

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Shaopeng Li

Independent

Jose M. Plehn-Dujowich

Powerlytics. Inc.

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 16, 2010

Abstract

This paper proposes a principal-agent model of moral hazard and adverse selection that introduces the notion of screening, which is distinct from sorting; and distinguishes between ability that is privately known by the agent versus general ability that is observable by the principal and market. Sorting is the traditional process by which the adverse selection problem is resolved. Screening is the process we propose by which agents that are deemed to be unsuitable are rejected. Used in conjunction with sorting, we consider ex-ante screening on the basis of the (observable) measure of general ability; and ex-post screening on the basis of the private measure of ability. We identify the benefits and costs incurred by the principal associated with hiring an agent with superior ability, and derive the manner in which the compensation mechanism should be adjusted to take into account the roles of screening. The principal may prefer agents with inferior qualifications, rejecting those who are “overqualified”; conversely, she may select an agent with a distinguished pedigree, rejecting agents who are “underqualified”. Screening alters the relationship between the compensation mechanism and the characteristics of the agency relationship, causing established results to change, such as the negative link between risk and incentives. The empirical ramifications of screening are important: not controlling for screening introduces bias and inconsistency in estimation.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Li, Shaopeng and Plehn-Dujowich, Jose M., Screening Versus Sorting in a Principal-Agent Model with Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection (August 16, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1659935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1659935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Rajesh K Aggarwal , Andrew A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: the impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
T Amemiya
Advanced econometrics Posted: 1985
M Bagnoli , T Bergstrom
Log-concave probability and its applications. Economic Theory , volume 26 , p. 445 - 69 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Banker , S Datar
Sensitivity, precision, and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,176
RANK
158,049
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies