Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Structure, Aggregation of Performance Measures, and Incentives

42 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2010

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Steffen Reichmann

University of Mannheim

Date Written: August 16, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the impact of organizational structure on incentives within a LEN-framework with agents on three hierarchical levels (bottom, middle, top), where the performance measures used for incentive design originate at the bottom-level. Previous literature has shown that with such disaggregated measures, the impact of organizational structure on incentives is limited to midlevel agents. In contrast, we show that with fully aggregated performance measures, organizational structure and incentives are independent. Furthermore, considering partially aggregated measures extends the impact of organizational structure on incentives to all hierarchical levels. The key to our results is that organizational structure affects the quality of aggregated performance measures, whereas the accounting system determines the extent of aggregation. We find that, frequently, the optimal organizational structure on the firm-level is detrimental to at least one hierarchical level. Based on this result we provide a rationale for the empirical lack of the theoretically well established trade-off between risk and incentives.

Keywords: Organizational Structure, Incentives, Aggregation

JEL Classification: D82, J41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Christian and Reichmann, Steffen, Organizational Structure, Aggregation of Performance Measures, and Incentives (August 16, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1659915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1659915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Kenneth J Arrow
The limits of organization Posted: 1974
Anil Arya , John C Fellingham , Douglas A Schroeder
Aggregation and Measurement Errors in Performance Evaluation
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 16 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Rajiv D Banker , Datar , M Srikant
Sensitivity, Precision, and Linear Aggregation of Signals for Performance Evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 1 Posted: 1989
Crossref
David Baron , David Besanko
Strategy, Organization, and Incentives. Industrial and Corporate Changes , volume 10 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,069
RANK
225,902
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Private Information and Performance Measurement Bias with Multiple Agents

By Naomi Rothenberg

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies