Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interim Reporting and Accounting Quality

35 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2010

Ulf Schiller

University of Basel

Marcel de Vegt

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 19, 2010

Abstract

We investigate the effect of interim reporting on accounting quality. We assume that the manager has a preference for a high stock price. The manager may bias accounting reports in each sub-period. We assume that the enforcement system ties sanctions to the detected gap between total reported earnings and total cash flows at the liquidation stage. We show that there are many circumstances where interim reporting does not improve accounting quality; sometimes interim reporting even reduces it. The result is driven by the fact that biasing reports in shorter intervals goes along with lower incremental sanctions at each reporting stage. However, if effective, the bias leads to the same manipulated stock price as does an analogous reporting bias for the longer period. The incentive for increased misreporting with interim reporting is present in multiple equilibria. If there is an earnings-inflating equilibrium, the above negative effect may be offset by improved timeliness. If there is an earnings-deflating equilibrium, interim reporting unambiguously reduces accounting quality.

JEL Classification: D80, M40

Suggested Citation:

Schiller, Ulf and de Vegt, Marcel, Interim Reporting and Accounting Quality (August 19, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1661592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1661592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Anne Beyer
Capital market prices, management forecasts, and earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 6 , p. 1713 - 1747 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Anne Beyer , Daniel A. Cohen , Thomas Z. Lys , Beverly R. Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature
Pages: 150 Posted: 6 Oct 2009 Last revised: 13 Aug 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Lawrence , Arianna S Brown , Pinello
To What Extent Does the Financial Reporting Process Curb Earnings Surprise Games?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , p. 947 - 981 Posted: 2007
Marty Butler , Arthur Kraft , Ira S Weiss
The effect of reporting frequency on the timeliness of earnings: The cases of voluntary and mandatory interim reports
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 181 - 217 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,007
RANK
158,514
4 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reliability-Relevance Trade-Offs and the Efficiency of Aggregation

By Ronald A. Dye and Sri S. Sridhar

Stock Price, Earnings and Book Value in Managerial Performance Measures

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Imprecision in Accounting Measurement: Can it Be Value Enhancing?

By Chandra Kanodia, Rajdeep Singh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies