Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bluffing Contests: The Real Effects of Pre-Announcing Competitive Decisions

39 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2010 Last revised: 22 Aug 2010

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Date Written: August 17, 2010

Abstract

We examine a duopolistic setting in which firms pre-announce their future competitive decisions (e.g. prices, production quantities, capacity investments) before they actually undertake them. We show that firms overstate their future actions in their pre-announcements, and that their real action levels are higher than the ones they would choose absent pre-announcements. In addition, we show that, the equilibrium real actions and welfare in Cournot competition reach a maximum value when pre-announcements are intermediately credible, whereas, actions are maximized and welfare minimized at that same credibility level in Bertrand competition.

We also examine the equilibrium with discretionary pre-announcements. We find that, in Cournot competition, there is a unique equilibrium in which both firms pre-announce regardless of whether disclosure policies are observable or not. In Bertrand competition, however, the equilibrium is contingent on the observability of the disclosure policies. If they are observable, unless both firms have a low credibility, only the firm with the higher credibility pre-announces and the other remains silent. Nevertheless, when disclosure policies are not observable, both firms pre-announce in a unique equilibrium.

Keywords: Disclosure, Oligopoly, Duopoly, Pre-Announcement, Bias, Bluffing, Credibility, Discretionary, Stackelberg

JEL Classification: C7, C72, D43, M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Nan, Lin, Bluffing Contests: The Real Effects of Pre-Announcing Competitive Decisions (August 17, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1661729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1661729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Oligopoly, Disclosure and Earnings Management
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 8 , p. 271 - 280 Posted: 1995
S B Bhattacharya , J R Ritter
Innovation and Communication: Signalling with Partial Disclosure
Review of Economic Studies , p. 331 - 346 Posted: 1983
Crossref
S Borenstein , M N Darrough , N M Stoughton
Rapid Price Communication and Coordination: The Airline
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 12 , p. 219 - 243 Posted: 1990
M P Doyle , C M Snyder
Information Sharing and Competition in the Motor Vehicle Industry
Journal of political Economy , volume 107 , p. 1326 - 1364
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,655
RANK
481,162
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Information Acquisition and Strategic Disclosure in Cournot Oligopoly

By Jos Jansen

Information Acquisition and Strategic Disclosure in Oligopoly

By Jos Jansen

Skewness of Earnings and the Believability Hypothesis: How Does the Financial Market Discount Accounting Earnings Disclosures?

By Murugappa (murgie) Krishnan, Srinivasan Sankaraguruswamy, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies