Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advising and Monitoring CEOs: The Dual Role of Boards

AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

49 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2010

Tim Baldenius

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Nahum D. Melumad

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Xiaojing Meng

Columbia Business School

Date Written: August 16, 2010

Abstract

The board of directors performs the dual role of monitoring and advising the firm’s management. At times it makes certain key decisions itself. We study the optimal board composition (of monitoring and advisory “types”) within a cheap-talk framework where the CEO and the board each may have private information about an impending investment decision, and their incentives are imperfectly aligned. When shareholders choose both the board composition and the allocation of decision rights between CEO and board, a non-monotonic relationship between CEO bias and board composition emerges. A key concern to practitioners and regulators is “CEO power”. Counter to conventional wisdom, we show that powerful CEOs who nominate board members themselves may in fact prefer a greater degree of monitoring intensity on the board than do shareholders. As a result, regulatory interventions (such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) that attempt to strengthen the monitoring role of boards, may in fact be harmful in precisely those cases where agency problems are the most severe. Lastly, CEOs may be able to entrench themselves by choosing “complex” projects involving greater information advantage. In response, shareholders may commit to an advisor-heavy board to preempt entrenchment.

Keywords: board of directors, corporate governance, CEO power, CEO entrenchment

JEL Classification: D82, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Baldenius, Tim and Melumad, Nahum D. and Meng, Xiaojing, Advising and Monitoring CEOs: The Dual Role of Boards (August 16, 2010). AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1662633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1662633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: a conceptual framework & survey
Journal of Economic Literature Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M Baker , P Gompers
The determinants of board structure at the initial public offering
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 597 Posted: 2003-10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,130
RANK
113,544
6 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies