Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Disclosure, Intertemporal Risk Sharing, and Asset Prices

MPI Collective Goods Preprint No. 2010/36

32 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2010

Tri Vi Dang

Columbia University - Department of Economics

Hendrik Hakenes

University of Bonn - Economic Science Area

Date Written: September 1, 2010

Abstract

Disclosure of information triggers immediate price movements, but it mitigates price movements at a later date, when the information would otherwise have become public. Consequently, disclosure shifts risk from later cohorts of investors to earlier cohorts. Hence, disclosure policy can be interpreted as a tool to “control” interim asset price movements, and to allocate risk intertemporally. This paper shows that a policy of partial disclosure (and, hence, of intertemporal risk sharing) can maximize, but surprisingly also minimize, the market value of the firm. Our model also applies to a setting where a central bank chooses the quality and frequency of the disclosure of macroeconomic information, or to the precision of disclosure by (distressed) banks.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Disclosure, Information Policy, Asset Pricing, Intertemporal Risk Sharing, General Equilibrium

JEL Classification: G14, D92, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dang, Tri Vi and Hakenes, Hendrik, Information Disclosure, Intertemporal Risk Sharing, and Asset Prices (September 1, 2010). MPI Collective Goods Preprint No. 2010/36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1670710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1670710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty Contests and Iterated Expectations in Asset Markets
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Angelo Baglioni , Umberto Cherubini
Accounting Fraud and the Pricing of Corporate Liabilities: Structural Models with Garbling
Pages: 26 Posted: 17 Feb 2005 Last revised: 12 Mar 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Biais , P Bossaerts , C Spatt
Equilibrium Asset Pricing and Portfolio Choice under Asymmetric Information
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 1503 - 1543 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Giovanni Cespa , Giovanni Cespa , Xavier Vives
Dynamic Trading and Asset Prices: Keynes Vs. Hayek
AFA 2010 Atlanta Meetings Paper Pages: 49 Posted: 22 Mar 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,213
RANK
413,842
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Price Drift as an Outcome of Differences in Higher Order Beliefs

By Snehal Banerjee, Ron Kaniel, ...

Bubbles and Panics in a Frictionless Market with Heterogeneous Expectations

By H. Henry Cao and Hui Ou-yang

Dynamic Trading and Asset Prices: Keynes vs. Hayek

By Giovanni Cespa and Xavier Vives

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies