Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting, Finance and Adverse Selection: Illustrations and Applications

37 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2010

Murali Jagannathan

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Steven Schwartz

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Joshua D. Spizman

Loyola Marymount University - Department of Finance

Richard A. Young

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: September 9, 2010

Abstract

Accounting is often viewed from a legalistic rather than economic perspective. Finance, on the other hand, is deeply rooted in economic theory, but at its heart is built on assumptions of frictionless markets. Neither perspective fully incorporates the rich economic environment in which we find the practice of accounting and finance; a market setting rife with information inefficiencies. We illustrate and review one such inefficiency, adverse selection. Adverse selection results when market participants have different levels of information about an attribute of payoff relevance. In such cases, less informed parties transact in a market where the profile of assets for sale or employees for hire is worse than the population as a whole. In general, adverse selection causes a loss of social welfare and, in extreme cases, may cause the breakdown of an entire market. Each illustration is based on one of the seminal papers written by the Nobel Laureates of 2001, recognized for their work on adverse selection. We then trace the insights into the accounting and finance literatures. We consider both disciplines jointly, because accounting information is often useful in mitigating the market inefficiencies studied in finance.

Keywords: Adverse Selection, Information Asymmetry, Auditing

JEL Classification: D82

Suggested Citation:

Jagannathan, Murali and Schwartz, Steven and Spizman, Joshua D. and Young, Richard A., Accounting, Finance and Adverse Selection: Illustrations and Applications (September 9, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1674597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1674597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A K Agrawal
The impact of investor protection law on corporate policy: Evidence from the blue sky laws Posted: 2009
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
F Allen , R R Faulhaber
Signalling by underpricing in the ipo market
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 323 Posted: 1989
Crossref
F Allen , R Michaely
Payout policy. Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
978
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,573
RANK
53,992
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economies, Capital Markets, and Securities Law

By Robert A. Prentice and Frank B. Cross

Asset Revaluation Regulations

By Joel S. Demski, Haijin Lin, ...

Reasonably Certain Estimates, Recognition, and Communication of Uncertainty

By Robert P. Magee

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies