Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Unintended Consequence of SFAS 133: Promoting Speculation

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

20 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2010

Lin Nan

Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: September 22, 2010

Abstract

The Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.133 (SFAS 133) allows firms to apply hedge accounting only to qualified hedges that pass effectiveness tests. Unqualified hedges (speculations) are required to be marked to market, and the unrealized gains/losses are to be recognized in earnings immediately. The purpose of SFAS 133 is to improve the timeliness of the information about financial derivatives risk. This paper, however, shows through a specific agency model that the early recognition of the unqualified use of derivatives may change the risk allocation in the manager's compensation and motivate speculation. Speculation is modeled as engaging in high-risk high-return derivatives contracts, while hedging activities are modeled as engaging in low-risk low return contracts (the low return is normalized to be zero for simplicity). The higher expected return from speculation makes it possible for the principal to offer a lower incentive in the early stage of derivative contracts. The lower incentive, in return, makes speculation less detrimental when the induced volatility is recognized earlier than the maturity date of the contracts, because the induced risk premium is decreased with the lower incentive.

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin, An Unintended Consequence of SFAS 133: Promoting Speculation (September 22, 2010). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1681093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
T R Adam , C S Fernando
Hedging, speculation, and shareholder value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 283 - 309 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R W Anderson , J P Danthine
The time pattern of hedging and the volatility of future prices
Review of Economic Studies , p. 249 - 266 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Romana L. Autrey , Shane Dikolli , Donald Paul Newman
The Effect of Career Concerns on the Contracting Use of Public and Private Performance Measures
Pages: 51 Posted: 14 Sep 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,874
RANK
333,065
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Some Recent Developments in Futures Hedging

By Donald D. Lien and Yiu Kuen Tse

A Note on Minimum Riskiness Hedge Ratio

By Sina Ehsani and Donald D. Lien

Cross and Delta-Hedges: Regression Versus Price-Based Hedge Ratios

By Piet Sercu and Xueping Wu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies