Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combining Historical Cost and Fair Value

44 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2010

Haijin Lin

University of Houston

Tong Lu

University of Houston

Date Written: October 20, 2010

Abstract

This study is to examine the economic consequences of asset measurement bases for illiquid, productive assets. We explicitly model both the entrepreneur (the seller) and the investor (the buyer) investment decision in a setting where the entrepreneur’s hidden action (investment decision) and hidden information (future prospects of the asset) are communicated through accounting reports. We derive three main findings. (i) Historical cost rule dominates fair value rule (in terms of securing greater social surplus) if and only if the expected prospects of the asset are sufficiently good. (ii) The lower of cost or fair value rule is welfare improving relative to the two pure measurement bases. (iii) Under the lower of cost or fair value rule, a large amortization rate induces a lower level of investment. However, such interplay between accounting and real decisions varies with the prevailing asset measurement basis.

Keywords: asset measurement, historical cost, fair value, lower of cost or fair value

JEL Classification: D53, D60, D82

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Haijin and Lu, Tong, Combining Historical Cost and Fair Value (October 20, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1695216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1695216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Statement of Basic Accounting Theory Posted: 1966
Crossref
A Arya , J Fellingham , B Mittendorf , D Schroeder
Reconciling Financial Information at Varied Levels of Aggregation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , p. 303 - 324 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Bachar , N Melumad , G Weyns
On Cost Tradeo¤s Between Conservative and Market Value Accounting
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 2 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1997
M Barth , W Landsman
How did Financial Reporting Contribute to the Financial Crisis?
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 423 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
625
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,357
RANK
97,900
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies