Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality Metrics and What They Measure

62 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2010 Last revised: 16 Aug 2011

Ralf Ewert

University of Graz - Institute of Accounting and Auditing

Alfred Wagenhofer

University of Graz

Date Written: August 16, 2011

Abstract

This paper provides a theory of earnings quality metrics, explaining what they capture and how they are related with each other. We develop a simple economy in which a manager has market price, earnings, and smoothing incentives and can bias earnings reports. This economy provides a framework for the analysis of earnings quality metrics. We express value relevance, persistence, predictability, smoothness, and discretionary accruals in terms of their primitives, the manager’s incentives, operating risk, and accounting noise, and examine their behavior on varying these primitives. We find that some of them, particularly value relevance and persistence, trace closely the change in information content in our setting. In contrast, smoothing and discretionary accruals reflect the rational market reaction to the earnings reports inconsistently. These results provide guidance for understanding and selecting metrics in empirical tests.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Accounting Quality, Value Relevance, Earnings Management, Discretionary Accruals

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Ewert, Ralf and Wagenhofer, Alfred, Earnings Quality Metrics and What They Measure (August 16, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1697042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1697042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,096
RANK
15,633
25 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reliability-Relevance Trade-Offs and the Efficiency of Aggregation

By Ronald A. Dye and Sri S. Sridhar

Stock Price, Earnings and Book Value in Managerial Performance Measures

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Imprecision in Accounting Measurement: Can it Be Value Enhancing?

By Chandra Kanodia, Rajdeep Singh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies