Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Disclosure and Opinion Divergence

43 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2010

Anjan V. Thakor

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School; Financial Theory Group; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

Date Written: July 26, 2010

Abstract

Does communicating more information always lead to greater agreement, in the sense that agents are more likely to agree on a given course of action, conditional on their information sets? According to information economics, the answer is yes. Moreover, the famous Representation Theorem asserts that in equilibrium agents will voluntarily disclose all they know, and this theorem has profoundly influenced the literature on information disclosure. In this paper, I show that both results critically depend on the assumption that all information is objective. I develop a model in which managers of firms are voluntarily communicating objective and subjective information, and prior beliefs about the strategy to maximize project value are rational but heterogeneous, to establish that more information does not necessarily lead to more agreement. Three main sets of results are derived. First, all firms voluntarily signal (objective) private information they have about their “type”, but not all firms disclose additional (subjective) information about strategy that is prone to multiple interpretations and hence potential disagreement. This lack of disclosure occurs even though there are no exogenous communication costs and “proprietary signaling costs” are precluded because information is being communicated only to the financial market and not to the firm’s product‐market competitors. Second, more valuable firms voluntarily disclose less information in equilibrium. Third, information disclosure has real consequences because it interacts with capital budgeting, investor relations and corporate governance. Firms that disclose more have a stronger preference for faster‐payback projects. While all firms that disclose additional strategy information also invest in investor relations, only a subset of firms that do not disclose this subjective information choose to invest in investor relations. Finally, corporate governance interacts with information disclosure – as the quality of corporate governance improves, voluntary information disclosure declines. Thus, this paper provides an economic rationale for higher‐quality firms to withhold more strategic information, and this has pervasive consequences.

Suggested Citation:

Thakor, Anjan V., Information Disclosure and Opinion Divergence (July 26, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1698963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1698963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,109
RANK
314,223
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies