Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Confession: Admitting Mistakes to Build Reputation

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2011 Last revised: 8 Nov 2017

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Ramandeep S. Randhawa

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Date Written: July 11, 2017

Abstract

Often firms reveal oversights and bad decisions publicly through their financial reporting (for instance, restating earnings, impairing goodwill, etc.). These "confessions," which usually lead to immediate reputation losses, may be attributed to attempts to be perceived as transparent or to attempts to avoid likely litigation costs. In this paper, however, we argue that reputational concerns about perceived ability alone can provide firms with strong enough incentives to confess their mistakes, even in the absence of other non-reputational disciplinary mechanisms. Analyzing the repeated interaction between a firm and an external evaluator who may detect the firm's mistakes, we show that in equilibrium a confession places the firm under higher future scrutiny, which is more costly for lower quality firms. Consequently, in equilibrium, higher quality firms confess mistakes more often.

Keywords: reputation, restatement, recall, mistake, confession, admit, bad news, disclosure, inspector, inspection, verification

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Randhawa, Ramandeep S., The Value of Confession: Admitting Mistakes to Build Reputation (July 11, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1702444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1702444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A Akhigbe , R Kudla , J Madura
Why are some corporate earnings restatements more damaging?
Applied Financial Economics , volume 15 , issue 5 , p. 327 - 336 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Araujo , D Gottlieb , H Moreira
A model of mixed signals with applications to countersignalling
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 1020 - 1043 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Bar-Isaac , S Tadelis
Seller reputation Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Benabou , G Laroque
Using privileged information to manipulate markets: Insiders, gurus, and credibility
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 921 - 958 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
803
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,135
RANK
70,642
12 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reputation and Turnover

By Rafael Rob and Tadashi Sekiguchi

Can Online Word-of-Mouth Communication Reveal True Product Quality? Experimental Insights, Econometric Results, and Analytical Modeling

By Nan Hu, Paul A. Pavlou, ...

Teaching to the Top and Searching for Superstars

By Heski Bar-isaac and Juan-josé Ganuza

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies