Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financing and Investment Efficiency, Information Quality, and Accounting Biases

UIC College of Business Administration Research Paper No. 10-14

35 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2010 Last revised: 28 Nov 2013

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Date Written: November 27, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the effect of accounting biases on firms' financing decisions and the role of accounting biases in endogenous information quality. We show that in industries with generally low-profit prospects, a downward-biased accounting system performs better than a neutral accounting system, and a more downward bias helps mitigate both investment and financing inefficiency; while for industries with generally high-profit prospects, an upward-biased accounting system is better than a neutral accounting system, and a more upward bias helps improve financing efficiency. In addition, we find that a more downward-biased accounting system motivates good firms to exert more effort to improve the information quality, which improves overall efficiency.

Keywords: conservatism, capital structure, information quality

JEL Classification: G31, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Wen, Xiaoyan, Financing and Investment Efficiency, Information Quality, and Accounting Biases (November 27, 2013). UIC College of Business Administration Research Paper No. 10-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1703530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1703530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Conservative Accounting Choices
Management Science , volume 51 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Anne Beyer
Conservatism and Aggregation: The Effect on Cost of Equity Capital and the Efficiency of Debt Contracts
Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 120 Pages: 53 Posted: 12 Jul 2012 Last revised: 5 Jun 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P Bolton , M Dewatripont
Contract Theory Posted: 2005
R Bushman , R Indjejikian
Stewardship Value of 'Distorted' Accounting Disclosures
The Accounting Review October , p. 765 - 782 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,594
RANK
31,419
8 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies