Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Preferences: Identification and Accounting Measurement

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2010-84

32 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2010 Last revised: 17 Apr 2013

Jim Musumeci

Southern Illinois University - Department of Finance

Richard C. Sansing

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 17, 2013

Abstract

This study evaluates the relation between a firm’s long-run cash effective tax rate (ETR) and the extent to which a corporation’s projects are tax-favored or tax-disfavored. We first derive a measure of the extent to which a project is tax-favored that is independent of the project’s financial accounting treatment. We argue that our measure, which focuses on the present value of the government’s tax collections from the project, is superior to the traditional measure that compares the pretax and after-tax internal rates of return of the project. We then use our measure as a benchmark with which to examine the relation between the ETR and tax preferences. We find that the long-run cash ETR is an unreliable tax preference measure, even when the asset is depreciated for financial reporting purposes at the rate at which its productivity declines.

Keywords: Effective Tax Rate, Tax Preferences

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Musumeci, Jim and Sansing, Richard C., Corporate Tax Preferences: Identification and Accounting Measurement (February 17, 2013). Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2010-84, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1703494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1703494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics
Crossref
T Atwood , M Drake , J Myers , L Myers
Home Country Tax System Characteristics and Corporate Tax Avoidance: International Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Brealey , S Myers , F Allen
Principles of Corporate Finance, Ninth Edition Posted: 2008
S Chen , X Chen , Q Chiang , T Shevlin
Are Family Firms More Tax-aggressive than Non-family Firms?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,807
RANK
128,124
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies