Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Labor Market for Bankers and Regulators

Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2010 Last revised: 13 Nov 2013

Philip Bond

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Vincent Glode

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: October 14, 2013

Abstract

We propose a labor market model in which agents with heterogeneous ability levels choose to work as bankers or as financial regulators. When workers extract intrinsic benefits from working in regulation (such as public-sector motivation or human capital accumulation), our model jointly predicts that bankers are, on average, more skilled than regulators and their compensation is more sensitive to performance. During financial booms, banks draw the best workers away from the regulatory sector and misbehavior increases. In a dynamic extension of our model, young regulators accumulate human capital and the best ones switch to banking in mid-career.

Keywords: Financial regulation, banking, fraud, intrinsic benefit, career choice

JEL Classification: G28, J24, J45

Suggested Citation:

Bond, Philip and Glode, Vincent, The Labor Market for Bankers and Regulators (October 14, 2013). Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1712063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1712063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
V V Acharya , T F Cooley , M P Richardson , I Walter
Regulating Wall Street: The Dodd-Frank Act and the New Architecture of Global Finance Posted: 2010
Ulf Axelson , Philip Bond
Wall Street Occupations: An Equilibrium Theory of Overpaid Jobs
EFA 2009 Bergen Meetings Paper Pages: 51 Posted: 17 Feb 2009 Last revised: 8 Jun 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Bar-Isaac , J Shapiro
Credit Ratings Accuracy and Analyst Incentives
American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 120 - 124 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J R Barth , R Caprio , Levine
Guardians of Finance: Making Regulators Work for Us Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
531
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,142
RANK
120,559
28 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Competition and Incentives with Motivated Agents

By Timothy J. Besley and Maitreesh Ghatak

Competition and Incentives with Motivated Agents

By Timothy J. Besley and Maitreesh Ghatak

Beauty is a Beast, Frog is a Prince: Assortative Matching with Nontransferabilities

By Patrick Legros and Andrew F. Newman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies