Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Unraveling Revisited: Disclosure of Horizontal Attributes

Journal of Industrial Economics, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2010 Last revised: 4 Aug 2013

Levent Celik

University of Leicester - Department of Economics, Finance and Accounting; Charles University in Prague - CERGE-EI, a joint workplace of Charles University and the Economics Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences

Date Written: October 12, 2012

Abstract

This paper analyzes in a spatial framework how much information a seller discloses about the variety he sells when he faces a buyer with a privately known taste for variety. I identify an equilibrium in which, for each possible variety, the seller's optimal strategy consists of either fully disclosing the variety or disclosing how far it is from the buyer's expected taste. The set of varieties the seller fully discloses monotonically expands as the buyer's taste for variety becomes stronger. I show that this is the unique undefeated equilibrium. From a policy perspective, mandating full disclosure is generally socially harmful.

Keywords: Verifiable information disclosure, asymmetric information, product differentiation

JEL Classification: D82, D83, M37

Suggested Citation:

Celik, Levent, Information Unraveling Revisited: Disclosure of Horizontal Attributes (October 12, 2012). Journal of Industrial Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1719338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1719338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
S P Anderson , R Renault
Advertising Content
American Economic Review , volume 96 , p. 93 - 113 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S P Anderson , R Renault
Comparative Advertising: Disclosing Horizontal Match Information
Rand Journal of Economics , volume 40 , p. 558 - 581 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S P Anderson , R Renault
Advertising: the Persuasion Game Posted: 2011
Filippo Balestrieri , Sergei Izmalkov
Informed Seller in a Hotelling Market
Pages: 55 Posted: 20 Feb 2014 Last revised: 2 Feb 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,162
RANK
286,433
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Asymmetric & Private Information eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Strategic Information Disclosure: The Case of Multi-Attribute Products with Heterogeneous Consumers

By V. Joseph Hotz and Mo Xiao

Competition and Disclosure

By Oliver J. Board

Information Gathering Externalities in Product Markets

By Heski Bar-isaac, Guillermo Caruana, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies