Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Goodwill and Incentive to Invest in Intangible Assets

40 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2011

Parunchana Pacharn

Brock University

Date Written: October 3, 2010

Abstract

I examine management’s investment decision under the traditional amortization rules for intangible assets and that under the new rules such as IAS 36, IAS 38, and SFAS 142 where costs of purchased goodwill are subject to periodic impairment tests. I find that under the amortization rules, the manager’s hurdle rate to invest in the internally generated asset (IGA) is greater than that of the shareholder. Under the impairment rules, the manager hurdle rate to invest in the IGA is even greater than that under the amortization rules. However, the manager employs another hurdle rate for a partial investment in the IGA. This is because the IGA may serve as a “cushion” and help reduce the impairment charges on the purchased goodwill. I provide the conditions under which optimal (and suboptimal) investment decisions occur. The results overall suggest that firms and standard setters consider the incentive side of the standards in addition to the valuation side which is currently the sole focus.

Keywords: Intangible Asset, Goodwill Impairment, Management Incentive, Investment Decision

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pacharn, Parunchana, Accounting for Goodwill and Incentive to Invest in Intangible Assets (October 3, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1736125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1736125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M Ballester , M Garcia-Ayuso , J Livnat
The economic value of the R&D intangible asset
European Accounting Review , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 605 - 638 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Bublitz , M Ettredge
The information in discretionary outlays: advertising, research and development
Accounting Review , volume 64 , p. 108 - 132 Posted: 1989
Q Chen , T Hemmer , Y Zhang
On the relation between conservatism in accounting standards and incentives for earnings management
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 541 - 65 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Dutta , S Reichelstein
Stock price, earnings, and book value in managerial performance measures
Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 4 , p. 1069 - 1100 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,840
RANK
181,854
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reliability-Relevance Trade-Offs and the Efficiency of Aggregation

By Ronald A. Dye and Sri S. Sridhar

Stock Price, Earnings and Book Value in Managerial Performance Measures

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Imprecision in Accounting Measurement: Can it Be Value Enhancing?

By Chandra Kanodia, Rajdeep Singh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies