Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agency Conflicts, Prudential Regulation, and Marking to Market

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 11-05

53 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2011

Tong Lu

University of Houston

Haresh Sapra

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Ajay Subramanian

Georgia State University

Date Written: January 4, 2011

Abstract

We develop a theory of how agency conflicts between the shareholders and debt holders of a financial institution, accounting measurement rules, and prudential capital regulation interact to affect the institution’s capital structure and project choices. We show that, relative to a benchmark historical cost regime in which assets and liabilities on the institution’s balance sheet are measured at their origination values, fair value or mark-to-market accounting could mitigate asset substitution, but exacerbate under-investment arising from debt overhang. The optimal choices of the accounting regime and the prudential solvency constraint balance the inefficiencies due to asset substitution and under-investment that move in opposing directions. Under fair value accounting, the optimal (value-maximizing) solvency constraint declines with the institution’s marginal cost of investment in project quality, and with the excess cost of equity capital relative to debt capital. Fair value accounting dominates historical cost accounting provided the solvency constraints in the respective regimes take their optimal values. If the solvency constraint in the fair value regime is sub-optimally set to be too tight, however, historical cost accounting dominates fair value accounting.

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Tong and Sapra, Haresh and Subramanian, Ajay, Agency Conflicts, Prudential Regulation, and Marking to Market (January 4, 2011). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 11-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1739164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1739164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An Incomplete Contract Approach to Financial Contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Besanko , G Kanatas
The Regulation of Bank Capital: Do Capital Standards Promote Bank Safety?
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 5 , p. 160 - 183 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S Bhattacharya
Aspects of Monetary and Banking Theory Under Moral Hazard
Journal of Finance , volume 37 , p. 371 - 384 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Gauri Bhat , Richard Frankel , Xiumin Martin
Panacea, Pandora's box, or placebo: Feedback in bank mortgage-backed security holdings and fair value accounting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 2-3 , p. 153 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Guochang Zhang
Accounting Information and Equity Valuation
, volume 6 , p. 191 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Caterina Lepore , Misa Tanaka , David Humphry , Kallol Sen
An Elusive Panacea? The Impact of the Regulatory Valuation Regime on Insurers' Investment Behaviour
Bank of England Working Paper No. 710 · 50 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2018 · Downloads: 72
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carlos Corona , Lin Nan , Gaoqing Zhang
Banks' Discretionary Use of Fair-Value Accounting, Capital Requirement Regulation, and Bank Lending
42 Pages · Posted: 25 Jul 2013 · Last revised: 21 Sep 2017 · Downloads: 262
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,476
RANK
138,678
4 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies