Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Equity Compensation Disclosure

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2011

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: January 14, 2011

Abstract

The primary role of equity compensation is to provide incentives to an effort-averse agent. Here, we show that the chosen level of equity incentives, when publicly disclosed, will also convey information about future earnings, causing two-way linkages between incentive compensation and financial reporting. If either (a) market prices respond more (less) to information, (b) the manager is more (less) risk-averse, (c) earnings are more (less) noisy, then the firm's owners choose more pronounced (muted) incentives, in turn leading to greater (lower) future earnings. The model explains observed spurious correlations between firm performance and executive compensation, and provides several new predictions linking managerial, earnings and market determinants to optimal equity holdings.

Keywords: Compensation, Disclosure, Signalling, Managerial, Theory, Accounting, Options, CEO, Pay-for-performance, Market, Earnings, Information

JEL Classification: D2, D8, E2, G1, G3, J3, K2, L1, M1, M2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy, Economic Consequences of Equity Compensation Disclosure (January 14, 2011). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1740922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
John E Core , David F Larcker
Performance consequences of mandatory increases in executive stock ownership
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 64 , issue 3 , p. 317 - 340 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Patricia M Dechow , Amy P Hutton , Richard G Sloan
Economic Consequences of Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Ronald A Dye
Disclosure of Nonproprietary Information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 145 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Jennifer J Gaver , M Kenneth , George P Gaver , Battistel
The Stock Market Reaction to Performance Plan Adoptions
Accounting Review , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 172 - 182 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,344
RANK
140,484
2 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

On the Use of Loose Monitoring and Lavish Pay in Agency

By Qi Chen, Thomas Hemmer, ...

Geeksploitation: Optimism and Monitoring-Aversion in Agency Relationships

By Michael J. Smith

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies