Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limited Liability, Asymmetric Taxation, and Risk Taking - Why Partial Tax Neutralities Can Be Harmful

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 3301

31 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2011

Ralf Ewert

University of Graz - Institute of Accounting and Auditing

Rainer Niemann

University of Graz, Center for Accounting Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Date Written: December 30, 2010

Abstract

We examine the combined effects of asymmetric taxation and limited liability on optimal risk taking of investors. Given an optimal risk level in the pre-tax case under full liability, loss-offset restrictions reduce, and limited liability enhances the incentives for taking risk. For every degree of limited liability we can find corresponding loss-offset limitations inducing the same optimal risk level as in the reference case. Thereby we get tax neutrality with respect to risk taking. We show that tax neutrality with respect to risk taking is incompatible with tax neutrality with respect to the choice of the legal form. In our model, full liability requires symmetric taxation and limited liability requires asymmetric taxation of profits and losses.

Keywords: limited liability, loss-offset, tax neutrality, risk taking

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ewert, Ralf and Niemann, Rainer, Limited Liability, Asymmetric Taxation, and Risk Taking - Why Partial Tax Neutralities Can Be Harmful (December 30, 2010). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 3301, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1742740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1742740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Michael G Allingham
Zeitschrift für Nationalökono-mie , volume 32 , p. 203 - 224 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Rosanne / Altshuler , Alan J Auerbach
The Significance of Tax Law Asymmetries: An Empirical Investigation , volume 105 , p. 61 - 89 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach
The Dynamic Effects of Tax Law Asymmetries , volume 53 , p. 205 - 225 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach , James M Poterba
Tax Loss Carryforwards and Corporate Tax Incentives , p. 305 - 338 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,825
RANK
511,510
5 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law, Organizational Form and Taxes: A Stakeholder Perspective

By Kose John, Vinay B. Nair, ...

Asymmetric Taxation and Performance-Based Incentive Contracts

By Rainer Niemann

A Utility-Based Explanation of Tax Asymmetries

By Martin Fochmann and Martin Jacob

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies