Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Will the Convergence Towards a 'High Quality' Accounting Standard Be the Natural Result? A Study on a Game Theory for the Consequences of Global Accounting Convergence

10 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2011

Satoshi Taguchi

Doshisha University

Date Written: January 16, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to study whether or not the convergence towards a 'high quality' accounting standard will be the natural result. One of the purposes of IASB is to make high quality accounting standards because of the convergence. It seems that the best strategy for the convergence, but can it be true? The result of this study shows the convergence to a 'high quality' standard is not always the natural result. This is an interesting consequence against the objective of IASB.

The methodology in this research is based on a comparative institutional analysis (Aoki 2001, Grief 2006) and we think an institution as the Nash equilibrium of game theory (Binmore 2010). In this study, I adopt a 3×3 coordination game because one of the essential factors of global accounting convergence is to coordinate accounting standards (Hail et al.2009, Taguchi 2009).

Keywords: game theory, comparative institutional analysis, the Nash equilibrium, IFRS, IASB, coordination game

JEL Classification: C70, D74, G28, K22, M41, P51

Suggested Citation:

Taguchi, Satoshi, Will the Convergence Towards a 'High Quality' Accounting Standard Be the Natural Result? A Study on a Game Theory for the Consequences of Global Accounting Convergence (January 16, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1742139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1742139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M Aoki
Towards a Comparative Institutional Analysis Posted: 2001
M Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
G Benston , M Bromwich , E Litan , A Wagenhofer
Following the Money: The Enron Failure and the State of Corporate Disclosure Posted: 2003
K Binmore
Does game theory work? The Bargaining challenge
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 245 - 252 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,312
RANK
511,510
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies