Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Earning Fixated Traders Survive in a Competitive Securities Market?: Implication for Sustained Price Anomalies and Mark to Market Accounting

33 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2011

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Guo Ying Luo

McMaster University

Date Written: February 26, 2011

Abstract

We model the dynamic survival of earning fixated traders in a competitive security market populated by heterogeneous investors that allows for learning and arbitrage. We prove that in the absence of noise traders, rational investors will drive out earnings fixated investors from the market in the long-run. More interestingly, we show that in a market with noise traders, some proportion of earning fixated traders survive in long-run equilibrium for all feasible model parameter values. Furthermore, under no circumstances can the earning fixated traders be driven out of the market completely. On the contrary, for some parameter values, the earning fixated traders drive out the rational traders entirely. These results obtain because in a competitive security market with noise traders, earning fixated traders adopt a trading strategy that is more effective than the trading strategy of rational traders at exploiting the misvaluations created by noise traders. These results rationalize the long-run sustainability of common pricing anomalies. They also highlight a potential benefit to society of mark to market accounting.

Keywords: Earning Fixated Traders, Survivorship, Mark to Market Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Luo, Guo Ying, Can Earning Fixated Traders Survive in a Competitive Securities Market?: Implication for Sustained Price Anomalies and Mark to Market Accounting (February 26, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1770422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1770422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
J S Abarbanell
Do Analysts' Earnings Forecasts Incorporate Information in Prior Stock Price Changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of Analysts' Overreaction/Underreaction to Earnings Information as an Explanation for Anomalous Stock Price Behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1208 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
D Aboody
Recognition Versus Disclosure in the Oil and Gas Industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,822
RANK
556,453
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies