Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Operational Cash Holding, Endogenous Financial Constraints and Credit Rationing

39 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2011 Last revised: 21 Apr 2013

Gerhard Kling

University of Aberdeen - Business School

Date Written: April 19, 2013

Abstract

The paper develops a theory of operational cash holding considering short-term liquidity shocks due to uncertain net working capital. Debt holders provide an irrevocable credit line based on expected insolvency risk, and firms select optimal cash holding maximizing shareholder value. Debt and equity holders are risk-neutral, and there are no agency costs between managers and shareholders. In the absence of uncertain cash flows, the model shows the trade-off between cash holding and investing in fixed assets, which reflects the transaction motive. Introducing uncertain cash flows reveals that precautionary cash holding reduces default risk, which enhances access to short-term bank finance, therefore, making financial constraints endogenous. Debt holders have an incentive to impose constraints to force firms to hold cash. The theory shows that credit rationing can occur in the absence of market frictions. The paper illustrates the theory using US data from 1989 to 2012.

Keywords: cash holding, financial constraints, credit rationing

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Kling, Gerhard, A Theory of Operational Cash Holding, Endogenous Financial Constraints and Credit Rationing (April 19, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1775902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1775902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
V Acharya , H Almeida , F Ippolito , A Perez
Credit lines as monitored liquidity insurance: Theory and evidence Posted: 2013
Crossref
V Acharya , S Davydenko , I Strebulaev
Cash holdings and credit risk
Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , p. 3572 - 3609 Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Almeida , M Campello , M Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E Baltensperger
Credit rationing: Issues and questions
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 10 , p. 170 - 183 Posted: 1978
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,247
RANK
162,978
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Determinants and Implications of Corporate Cash Holdings

By Tim C. Opler, Lee Pinkowitz, ...

The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash

By Heitor Almeida, Murillo Campello, ...

Why Do U.S. Firms Hold so Much More Cash than They Used to?

By Thomas W. Bates, Kathleen M. Kahle, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies