Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition and Transparency in Financial Markets

AFA 2012 Chicago Meetings Paper

46 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2011

Bruce I. Carlin

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Shaun Davies

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Andrew Iannaccone

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: December 28, 2010

Abstract

Is competition sufficient to induce transparency in financial markets? We examine this question taking into consideration that competition in financial markets frequently resembles a tournament, where superior relative performance and greater visibility are rewarded with convex payoffs. We show under fairly general conditions (i.e., model variations) that higher competition for this remuneration often makes discretionary disclosure less likely. In the limit when the market is perfectly competitive, transparency is minimized. We show that this effect may decrease efficiency and per capita welfare, particularly when it is optimal to screen all market participants to determine whether they should be allocated a scarce good. Our analysis implies, then, that competition might be unreliable as a driver of transparency and efficiency in financial markets, especially in settings where tournament-style remuneration takes place.

Keywords: Transparency, Disclosure, Financial Markets

JEL Classification: G18

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Bruce I. and Davies, Shaun and Iannaccone, Andrew, Competition and Transparency in Financial Markets (December 28, 2010). AFA 2012 Chicago Meetings Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1778262 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1778262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Acharya , Peter Viral , Ilan Demarzo , Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements Posted: 2010
Crossref
George A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Vineet Agarwal , Angel Liao , Richard J. Taffler , Elly Nash
The Impact of Effective Investor Relations on Market Value
Pages: 25 Posted: 9 Mar 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jonathan B Berk , R C Green
Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 112 , p. 1269 - 1295 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Sitikantha Parida , Terence Teo
The Impact of More Frequent Portfolio Disclosure on Mutual Fund Performance
49 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2012 · Downloads: 328
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sitikantha Parida
Competition and Incentive to Reveal Information in Financial Markets
50 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2012 · Downloads: 97
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,060
RANK
251,747
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Within-Industry Timing of Earnings Warnings: Do Managers Herd?

By Senyo Y. Tse and Jennifer Tucker

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies