Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informational Feedback Effect, Adverse Selection, and the Optimal Disclosure Policy

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 11-13

32 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2011 Last revised: 21 Feb 2012

Pingyang Gao

HKU Business School

Pierre Jinghong Liang

Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: September 1, 2011

Abstract

Trading in a secondary stock market not only redistributes wealth among investors but also generates information that guides subsequent investment. We provide a positive theory of disclosure that reflects both functions of a secondary market. By making private information public, disclosure reduces private information acquisition and levels the playing field. However, a leveled playing field has two opposite effects on firm value. On one hand, it ameliorates adverse selection among investors and improves the liquidity of firm shares. On the other hand, it could also impede investment efficiency because less information is produced by the market and used by decision makers. This trade-off determines the optimal disclosure policy. Our theory generates new testable predictions and reconciles disclosure with other parts of securities regulation that encourage private information production.

Keywords: Disclosure, Securities Regulation, Adverse Selection, Informational Feedback Effect

JEL Classification: G14, K22, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Pingyang and Liang, Pierre Jinghong, Informational Feedback Effect, Adverse Selection, and the Optimal Disclosure Policy (September 1, 2011). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 11-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1780462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1780462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Using disclosure to in ‡uence herd behavior and alter competition
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 231 - 246 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
Earnings and price-based compensation contracts in the presence of discretionary trading and incomplete contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 93 - 121 Posted: 1995
Crossref
J Bertomeu , A Beyer , R A Dye
Capital structure, cost of capital, and voluntary disclosures , volume 86 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Bond , I Goldstein , E S Prescott
Market-based corrective actions
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
963
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,426
RANK
55,151
106 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Shocks: Evidence from Exogenous Changes in Analyst Coverage

By François Derrien and Ambrus Kecskes

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies