Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Level 3 Assets: Booking Profits, Concealing Losses

63 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2011 Last revised: 17 May 2011

Konstantin Milbradt

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management - Department of Finance

Date Written: April 26, 2011

Abstract

Fair value accounting forces institutions to revalue their inventory whenever a new transaction price is observed. An institution facing a balance sheet constraint can have incentives to suspend trading in Level 3 assets (traded on opaque over-the-counter markets) to avoid such marking-to-market. This way the asset’s book valuation can be kept artificially high, thereby relaxing the institution’s balance sheet constraint. But, the institution loses direct control of its asset holdings, leading to possible excessive risk exposure. Solving this ’real options’ problem, the institution will report profits as they occur, but will delay reporting losses. A regulator trying to reign in risk-taking faces ambiguous tools in fines for balance sheet manipulation and capital requirements: somewhat counter-intuitively, they can increase risk-taking and balance sheet manipulation. Audits in general decrease risk-taking but may be costly to the regulator. Outside investors, who do not know at what price the asset would trade, reduce their valuation of the bank’s balance sheet the longer the asset has not traded. Their expected discount from reported book value is convex in time since last trade. The model provides predictions on the distribution of a bank’s trading gains in illiquid markets and the impact of regulatory policy.

Keywords: Mark-to-market, mark-to-model, level 3 assets, balance sheet constraints, financial regulation, optimal stopping, real options

Suggested Citation:

Milbradt, Konstantin, Level 3 Assets: Booking Profits, Concealing Losses (April 26, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1786985 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1786985
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
V V Acharya , P M Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements Posted: 2010
Crossref
Tobias Adrian , Hyun Song Shin
Liquidity and Leverage
FRB of New York Staff Report No. 328 Pages: 39 Posted: 4 Jun 2008 Last revised: 11 Nov 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Attari , A S Mello , M E Ruckes
Arbitraging arbitrageurs
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 2471 - 2511 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Basak , B Croitoru
Equilibrium mispricing in a capital market with portfolio constraints
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 748 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,663
RANK
271,899
15 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Within-Industry Timing of Earnings Warnings: Do Managers Herd?

By Senyo Y. Tse and Jennifer Tucker

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies