Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Stewardship Role of Analyst Forecasts, and Discretionary Versus Non-Discretionary Accruals

32 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2011

Peter O. Christensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance

Hans Frimor

Aarhus University; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Business and Economics

Florin Sabac

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 15, 2011

Abstract

We examine the interaction between discretionary and non-discretionary accruals in a stewardship setting. Contracting includes multiple rounds of renegotiation based on contractible accounting information and non-contractible but more timely non-accounting information. We show that accounting regulation aimed at increasing earnings quality from a valuation perspective (earnings persistence) may have a significant impact on how firms rationally respond in terms of allowing accrual discretion in order to alleviate the impact on the stewardship role of earnings. Increasing the precision of more timely non-accounting information (analyst earnings forecasts) increases the ex ante value of the firm and reduces costly earnings management. There is an optimal level of reversible non-discretionary accrual noise introduced through revenue recognition policies. Tight rules-based accounting regulation, as opposed to leaving firms more choice over non-discretionary accrual policies, may lead firms to rationally respond by inducing costly earnings management. More generally, regulating both earnings persistence and the tightness of admissible auditing policies may not result in less equilibrium earnings management.

Keywords: Stewardship, Analyst forecasts, Earnings Management, Renegotiation, Discretionary and Nondiscretionary, Accruals, Accounting Regulation

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Peter Ove and Frimor, Hans and Frimor, Hans and Sabac, Florin, The Stewardship Role of Analyst Forecasts, and Discretionary Versus Non-Discretionary Accruals (March 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1786621 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1786621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the revelation principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
George J. Benston , Douglas R. Carmichael , Joel S. Demski , Karim Jamal , Bala G. Dharan , Bob Laux , Shivaram Rajgopal , George Vrana
Comments by the American Accounting Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee on the FASB's 'Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (Hereafter CF)', Call for Preliminary Views, July 6, 2006
Posted: 7 Dec 2006 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P O Christensen , J S Demski , H Frimor
Accounting policies in agencies with moral hazard and renegotiation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 1071 - 1090 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P O Christensen , G A Feltham
Economics of Accounting: Volume II -Performance Evaluation
Springer Series in Accounting Scholarship Posted: 2005
Load more
3 Citations
Christoph Pelger , Ulrich Schäfer
Deferred compensation, managerial retirement, and the stewardship perspective of financial accounting
34 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2014 · Last revised: 10 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 221
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ralf Ewert , Alfred Wagenhofer
Economic Relations Among Earnings Quality Measures
Abacus, Vol. 51, Issue 3, pp. 311-355, 2015 · 45 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2015 · Downloads: 3
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chris S. Armstrong , Yuen-Kit Chau , Christopher D. Ittner , Jason J. Xiao
Earnings per Share Targets and CEO Incentives
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 17-09 · 59 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2017 · Last revised: 26 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 1,426
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,174
RANK
210,151
3 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Providing Managerial Incentives: Cash Flows Versus Accrual Accounting

By Stefan J. Reichelstein

Accrual-Based Compensation, Depreciation and Investment Decisions

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Controlling Investment Decisions: Depreciation- and Capital Charges

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies