Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Capital Structure for Finite Cash Flows

38 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2011 Last revised: 16 Nov 2013

Felipe Mejia-Pelaez

Octum

Ignacio Velez-Pareja

Grupo Consultor CAV Capital Advisory & Valuation

James W. Kolari

Texas A&M University - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 30, 2011

Abstract

La versión española de este artículo se puede encontrar en: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1826264

This paper shows how to proceed to find the optimal capital structure and value with period-to-period constant and variable leverage, when the discount rate for tax shields is Ke, the cost of levered equity. Numerical procedures and recursive closed-form non-circular expressions for the finite-period and perpetuity cases are presented, which facilitate any kind of implementation including Monte Carlo simulations.

En este trabajo se muestra cómo encontrar la estructura óptima de capital y el valor con un endeudamiento constante y variable período a período, cuando la tasa de descuento para el ahorro de impuestos es Ke, el costo de capital apalancado. Se presentan procedimientos numéricos y expresiones recursivas compactas no circulares para los casos de períodos finitos y perpetuidades, lo que facilita el cálculo y el análisis, incluyendo simulaciones de Monte Carlo. Asimismo, se ilustra el procedimiento en hoja de cálculo con Solver como una verificación.

See a related PowerPoint slides that accompany and complement this paper at: Blind Man's Buff: On the Search of the Optimal Capital Structure

Keywords: Optimal capital structure, valuation, non-circularity, finite cash flows, perpetuities tax shield, cost of equity

JEL Classification: M21, M40, M46, M41, G12, G31, J33

Suggested Citation:

Mejia-Pelaez, Felipe and Velez-Pareja, Ignacio and Kolari, James W., Optimal Capital Structure for Finite Cash Flows (March 30, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1799605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1799605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
James W. Kolari , Ignacio Velez-Pareja
Corporation Income Taxes and the Cost of Capital: A Revision
Innovar, 22(46), 53-72. 2012, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2012-31 Pages: 19 Posted: 25 Nov 2010 Last revised: 1 Jun 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Modigliani , H Franco Y Merton , Miller
The Cost of Capital, Corporation Taxes and the Theory of Investment
The American Economic Review , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 261 - 297 Posted: 1958
J Tham , I Vélez-Pareja
Principles of Cash Flow Valuation. An Integrated Market Based Approach Posted: 2004
Joseph Tham , Ignacio Velez-Pareja , James W. Kolari
Cost of Capital with Levered Cost of Equity as the Risk of Tax Shields
Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2011-12 Pages: 11 Posted: 10 Aug 2010 Last revised: 19 Dec 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
787
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,480
RANK
72,640
4 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporation Income Taxes and the Cost of Capital: A Revision

By James W. Kolari and Ignacio Velez-pareja

Cost of Capital with Levered Cost of Equity as the Risk of Tax Shields

By Joseph Tham, Ignacio Velez-pareja, ...

Costo de Capital con Costo del Patrimonio Apalancado Como el Riesgo de los Escudos Fiscales (Cost of Capital with Levered Cost of Equity as the Risk of Tax Shields)

By Joseph Tham, Ignacio Velez-pareja, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies