Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unbiased Accounting Considering Profitability

53 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2011 Last revised: 18 Jun 2011

Martin Staehle

University of Bern - Institute for Accounting

Niklas Lampenius

University of Hohenheim - Faculty of Business, Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: June 15, 2011

Abstract

Unbiased accounting is supposed to provide perfect economic information to decision makers. We identify three notions of unbiased accounting in the literature, promoting return-, cost-, or value-disclosure as guiding principle and evaluate them based on the criterion of informational sufficiency. We show that the unbiased accounting regimes systematically differ based on the criterion of unconditional conservatism on a single project level as well as in a steady state framework. Given the existence of systematic biases we show that some common assertions in the literature related to the notion of unbiased accounting are misleading. For regulation, financial analysis, and stewardship purposes the respective regimes are informationally sufficient if and only if the appropriate performance indicator is applied when measuring profitability.

Keywords: Unbiased accounting, neutral accounting, value accounting, conservative accounting, conservatism in accounting, fair value, historic cost, economic accounting, steady state analysis

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Staehle, Martin and Lampenius, Niklas, Unbiased Accounting Considering Profitability (June 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1800048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1800048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,082
RANK
207,451
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Depreciation Rules and the Relation Between Marginal and Historical Cost

By Madhav V. Rajan and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Depreciation Rules and the Relation Between Marginal and Historical Cost

By Madhav V. Rajan and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Macroeconomic Variables and the E/P Ratio

By Prem C. Jain and Joshua G. Rosett

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies