Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Outsourcing Competition and Information Sharing with Asymmetrically Informed Suppliers

Forthcoming at Production and Operations Management, 2013

24 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2011 Last revised: 10 Nov 2013

Xia Zhao

University of North Carolina at Greensboro - Information Systems & Supply Chain Management

Ling Xue

University of Georgia - Department of Management Information Systems

Fuqiang Zhang

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: March 11, 2013

Abstract

This paper studies an outsourcing problem where two service providers (suppliers) compete for the service contract from a client. The suppliers face uncertain cost for providing the service because they do not have perfect information about the client's type. The suppliers receive differential private signals about the client type and thus compete under asymmetric information. We first characterize the equilibrium of the supplier competition. Then we investigate two of the client's information sharing decisions. The first decision is about whether the client should help the less-informed supplier get better information. It is shown that less information asymmetry may dampen the supplier competition. Therefore, the client does not necessarily have the incentive to reduce information asymmetry between the suppliers. We characterize the conditions under which leveling the informational ground is beneficial to the client. The second decision is about how much information the client should share with both suppliers so as to improve the quality of their signals. Under the presence of information asymmetry (e.g., when the suppliers have different learning abilities), sharing more information may enhance the advantage of one supplier over the other. As a result, the client's profit may decrease in the amount of information shared with the suppliers. The findings from this paper provide useful managerial implications on information management for outsourcing firms.

Keywords: service outsourcing, asymmetric information, common value auction, information sharing

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Xia and Xue, Ling and Zhang, Fuqiang, Outsourcing Competition and Information Sharing with Asymmetrically Informed Suppliers (March 11, 2013). Forthcoming at Production and Operations Management, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1801622 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1801622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J Allen , D Gabbard , M Christopher
Outsourcing Managed Security Services Posted: 2003
Crossref
K S Anand , M Goyal
Strategic information management under leakage in a supply chain
Mgmt. Sci , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 438 - 452 Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Banerjee
Common value auctions with asymmetric bidder information
Economics Letters , volume 88 , p. 47 - 53 Posted: 2005
Crossref
G P Cachon , F Zhang
Procuring fast delivery: Sole sourcing with information asymmetry
Management Science , volume 52 , issue 6 , p. 881 - 896 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,110
RANK
382,931
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Strategic Information Sharing between Competing Retailers in a Supply Chain with Endogenous Wholesale Price

By Noam Shamir

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies