Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Acquisition in Competitive Markets: An Application to the US Mortgage Market

41 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2011 Last revised: 19 Mar 2015

Jeremy Burke

University of Southern California - Center for Economic and Social Research (CESR)

Curtis R. Taylor

Duke University - Department of Economics

Liad Wagman

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Date Written: September 5, 2011

Abstract

How do price commitments impact the amount of information firms acquire about potential customers? We examine this question in the context of a competitive market. Contracts are incomplete because the amount of information firms acquire about applicants during the screening process cannot be observed. Despite competition, we find that firms search for too much information in equilibrium. If price discrimination is prohibited, then members of high-risk groups suffer disproportionately high rejection rates. If rejected applicants remain in the market, then the resulting adverse selection can be so severe that all parties would be better off if no information were collected. We apply the results to the increasingly competitive US market for mortgages.

Keywords: Information Acquisition, Underwriting, Mortgages, Incomplete Contracts

JEL Classification: C73, D61, D83, L14

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Jeremy and Taylor, Curtis R. and Wagman, Liad, Information Acquisition in Competitive Markets: An Application to the US Mortgage Market (September 5, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1803322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1803322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Acquisti , H Varian
Conditioning Prices on Purchase History
Marketing Science , volume 24 , p. 367 - 381 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Berndt , B Hollifield , P Sandas
The Role of Mortgage Brokers in the Subprime Crisis
NBER Working Paper Series Posted: 2010-07
Crossref
G Bhardwaj , R Sengupta
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Working Paper. Version as of Posted: 2010-10
Wheres the Smoking Gun? A Study of Underwriting Standards for US Subprime Mortgages Posted: 2010-10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,636
RANK
436,820
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Conditioning Prices on Purchase History

By Alessandro Acquisti and Hal R. Varian

Private Demands and Demands for Privacy: Dynamic Pricing and the Market for Customer Information

By Curtis R. Taylor

Supplier Surfing: Competition and Consumer Behavior in Subscription Markets

By Curtis R. Taylor

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies