Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Excess Based Allocation of Risk Capital

Netspar Discussion Paper No. 12/2010-089

38 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2011

Gerwald van Gulick

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Anja De Waegenaere

Tilburg University - Department of Econometrics & OR, Netspar, and CentER

Henk Norde

Tilburg University - Center For Economic Research; Tilburg University - Department of Econometrics & Operations Research

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 3, 2010

Abstract

In this paper we propose a new rule to allocate risk capital to portfolios or divisions within a firm. Specifically, we determine the capital allocation that minimizes the excesses of sets of portfolios in lexicographical sense. The excess of a set of portfolios is defined as the expected loss of that set of portfolios in excess of the amount of risk capital allocated to them. The underlying idea is that large excesses are undesirable, and therefore the goal is to determine the allocation for which the largest excess is as small as possible. We show that this allocation rule yields a unique allocation, and that it satisfies some desirable properties. We also show that the allocation can be determined by solving a series of linear programming problems.

Keywords: risk capital, capital allocation, excesses, lexicographic minimum

JEL Classification: G10, C61, C71

Suggested Citation:

van Gulick, Gerwald and De Waegenaere, Anja M.B. and Norde, Henk W., Excess Based Allocation of Risk Capital (December 3, 2010). Netspar Discussion Paper No. 12/2010-089, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1804318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1804318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C Acerbi , D Tasche
On the coherence of expected shortfall
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 26 , p. 1487 - 1503 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Artzner , F Delbaen , J.-M Eber , D Heath
Coherent measures of risk
Mathematical Finance , volume 9 , p. 203 - 228 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J.-P Aubin
Mathematical methods of game and economic theory Posted: 1979
L Billera , D Heath
Allocation of shared costs: a set of axioms yielding a unique procedure
Mathematics of Operations Research , volume 7 , p. 32 - 39 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
369,949
3 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies