Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A More General Framework to Analyze Whether Voluntary Disclosure is Insufficient or Excessive

Review of Industrial Organization, Forthcoming

20 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2011 Last revised: 4 Nov 2013

Levent Celik

University of Leicester - Department of Economics, Finance and Accounting; Charles University in Prague - CERGE-EI, a joint workplace of Charles University and the Economics Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences

Date Written: November 4, 2013

Abstract

I analyze if the excessive quality disclosure finding of the classical literature extends to environments in which consumers have a downward-sloping demand. While the answer is affirmative, there are at least two situations under which disclosure is socially insufficient: (1) when there are quality levels that are too low to generate any positive demand; and (2) when the prior beliefs place sufficiently higher weight on lower qualities. In both cases, non-disclosure by the seller leads to a severe reduction in the perceived quality, thereby significantly lowering the demand and the quantity consumed.

Keywords: Monopoly, quality uncertainty, verifiable information disclosure

JEL Classification: D82, D83, L12, L15

Suggested Citation:

Celik, Levent, A More General Framework to Analyze Whether Voluntary Disclosure is Insufficient or Excessive (November 4, 2013). Review of Industrial Organization, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1807386 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1807386
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
O Board
Competition and disclosure
The Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 197 - 213 Posted: 2009
Crossref
I Cheong , J.-Y Kim
Costly information disclosure in oligopoly
The Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 132 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A F Daughety , J F Reinganum
Communicating quality: a unified model of disclosure and signalling
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 973 - 989 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Dranove , G Z Jin
Quality disclosure and certification: Theory and practice
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 935 - 63 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Levent Celik
Information Unraveling Revisited: Disclosure of Horizontal Attributes
Journal of Industrial Economics, Forthcoming · 45 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2010 · Last revised: 17 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 244
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
RANK
560,264
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Strategic Information Disclosure: The Case of Multi-Attribute Products with Heterogeneous Consumers

By V. Joseph Hotz and Mo Xiao

Competition and Disclosure

By Oliver J. Board

Information Gathering Externalities in Product Markets

By Heski Bar-isaac, Guillermo Caruana, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies