Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Information-based Model for the Differential Treatment of Gains and Losses

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2011 Last revised: 21 Jan 2018

Venky Nagar

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Madhav V. Rajan

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Korok Ray

Texas A&M University

Date Written: January 7, 2018

Abstract

This study defines reporting conservatism as a higher verification standard for probable gains compared to losses and builds a model that endogenously generates optimal behavior resembling an asymmetric preference for gains versus losses. Our model considers the setting where one party produces a resource and another tries to expropriate it. The key factor determining the extent of the gain-loss asymmetry is the level of information asymmetry or trust between the two parties. The information asymmetry-based results of our model provide a simpler explanation for the vast empirical literature on conservatism where the bulk of the economic relationships among the parties appear to be information-based with little direct relation to explicit debt contracts, a factor that has been the focus of prior theoretical arguments. We also suggest new empirical analyses.

Keywords: Evolutionary economics, financial accounting, conservatism, prospect theory, game theory

JEL Classification: D00, M40, E11, C7

Suggested Citation:

Nagar, Venky and Rajan, Madhav V. and Ray, Korok, An Information-based Model for the Differential Treatment of Gains and Losses (January 7, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1815794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1815794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Alesina , P Giuliano
Culture and institutions
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 53 , p. 898 - 944 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in uk private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
N Barberis
Thirty years of prospect theory in economics: A review and assessment
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 27 , p. 173 - 196 Posted: 2013
Crossref
N Barberis , M Huang
The loss aversion/narrow farming approach to the equity premium puzzle
Handbook of the Equity Risk Premium , p. 199 - 229 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,803
RANK
232,476
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies