Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information and the Cost of Capital: The Easley-O’Hara (2004) Model with Endogenous Information Acquisition

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 36, No. 1, pp. 5-14, 2011

11 Pages Posted: 5 May 2011

Greg Clinch

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Brett Lombardi

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting & Business Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 3, 2011

Abstract

We investigate the impact of endogenous information acquisition on Easley and O’Hara’s (2004) result that moving information from being publicly to privately available results in an increase in a firm’s cost of capital. As in Christensen et al. (2010), when the cost of information acquisition is fixed, Easley and O’Hara’s result reverses. We study two scenarios, however, where Easley and O’Hara’s result can continue to hold (i): where the cost of information acquisition is increasing in its precision, and (ii) where the benefits of acquiring private information span multiple firms.

Keywords: cost of capital, endogenous information acquisition

Suggested Citation:

Clinch, Greg and Lombardi, Brett J. and Lombardi, Brett J., Information and the Cost of Capital: The Easley-O’Hara (2004) Model with Endogenous Information Acquisition (May 3, 2011). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 36, No. 1, pp. 5-14, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1830568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
CRF's research focuses on how the link between disclosure and cost of capital is related to the point in time that cost of capital is measured: at the time of, or prior to, disclosure. Their observation that EO's cost of capital result reverses when information acquisition is made endogenous is only tangential to their analysis. See pages 834-835 of CRF. The link between cost of capital and private information is also investigated in Hughes Posted: 2007
where all privately informed investors (exogenously) receive the same vector of signals across multiple firms Posted: 2007
EO define M and N as the sum of the public and private signals respectively, and note that M and N are sufficient statistics for the signals. Our model is equivalent to EO's, but slightly simplifies the notation by implicitly setting I = 1. In Sections 2-4, we also assume a one-asset environment in comparison to EO's k assets. Since our focus is not on issues of diversification, this also allows us to simplify the notation
P Christensen , L De La Rosa , G Feltham
Information and the cost of capital: An ex ante perspective
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 817 - 848 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,068
RANK
274,044
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies