Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Monitoring, Collusion and the Timing of Information

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4497

34 Pages Posted: 5 May 2011 Last revised: 12 Dec 2013

Fahad Khalil

University of Washington - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Jacques P. Lawarree

University of Washington - Department of Economics

Troy Joseph Scott

Independent

Date Written: April 2015

Abstract

When a principal’s monitoring information is private (non-verifiable), the agent should be concerned that the principal could misrepresent the information to reduce the agent’s wage or collect a monetary penalty. Restoring credibility may lead to an extreme waste of resources - the so-called burning of money. A more realistic and efficient outcome is feasible when the private information arrives in time to rescale the agent’s effort. Rescaling is more effective than pure monetary penalties because effort has different values to different parties while money is equally valuable to all parties. Furthermore, when rescaling is feasible, private monitoring is more efficient than public monitoring subject to collusion because nonmonetary penalties are ineffective to deter collusion.

Keywords: Monitoring, Unverifiable signal, Private communication, Timing of information, Collusion

JEL Classification: D73, D82, D86, D720, D830, D860

Suggested Citation:

Khalil, Fahad and Lawarree, Jacques P. and Scott, Troy Joseph, Private Monitoring, Collusion and the Timing of Information (April 2015). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4497, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1830630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1830630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Alfredo Burlando , Alberto Motta
Collusion and the Organisation of the Firm
34 Pages · Posted: 18 Oct 2012 · Last revised: 24 Feb 2014 · Downloads: 158
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Roger D. Congleton
Rent Seeking and Organizational Governance: Limiting Losses from Intra-Organizational Conflict
28 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2014 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William Bentley MacLeod , Teck Yong Tan
Optimal Contracting with Subjective Evaluation: The Effects of Timing, Malfeasance and Guile
NBER Working Paper No. w22156 · 65 Pages · Posted: 11 Apr 2016 · Last revised: 15 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 31
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
527
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,065
RANK
121,660
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Collusion, Delegation and Supervision with Soft Information

By Antoine Faure-grimaud, Jean-jacques Laffont, ...

Delegated Contracting and Corporate Hierarchies

By Chongwoo Choe and In-uck Park

Collusion as an Informed Principal Problem

By Lucia Quesada

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies