Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Segment Disclosure Under the Management Approach: The Impact of Proprietary Costs on Internal Reporting Decisions

17 Pages Posted: 4 May 2011 Last revised: 20 May 2011

Andreas Scholze

Osnabrück University

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Date Written: May 3, 2011

Abstract

Accounting standards for external segment reporting purposes stipulate aggregation of information in line with the internal structure of the firm. This method of segment reporting is referred to as the "management approach." In this paper, we analyze the optimal disclosure of proprietary information when firms face a competitive threat from potential entrants into an industry. If external segment disclosure has to be aligned with internal segment reports, then disaggregated information allows for an efficient allocation of resources but eventually attracts competition by revealing proprietary information to potential entrants. In contrast, aggregated information implies inefficient decisions but eventually prevents competitors from entering the market. Our results show that aggregation arises for two reasons: It can be an instrument to prevent a competitor from entering the market or aggregated information can even be optimal if the competitor's market entry cannot be avoided or even more surprisingly if aggregated information attracts competition. In this case, aggregated information serves as a commitment device to reduce the intensity of competition.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Scholze, Andreas and Schneider, Georg Thomas, Segment Disclosure Under the Management Approach: The Impact of Proprietary Costs on Internal Reporting Decisions (May 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1830264 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1830264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Anil ; Arya , Hans Frimor , Brian Mittendorf
Discretionary Disclosure of Proprietary Information in a Multisegment Firm
Management Science , volume 56 , p. 645 - 658 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Daniel A Bens , Berger , G Philip , Steven J Monahan
Discretionary Disclosure in Financial Reporting: An Examination Comparing Internal Firm Data to Externally Reported Segment Data
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 417 - 449 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Philip G Berger , Rebecca Hann
The Impact of SFAS No. 131 on Information and Monitoring
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 163 - 223 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Christine A Botosan , Mary Stanford
Managers' Motives to Withhold Segment Disclosures and the Effect of SFAS No. 131 on Analysts' Information Environment
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , p. 751 - 771 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,709
RANK
173,507
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies