Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Incentives, Financial Constraints and Ownership Concentration

Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 798

44 Pages Posted: 13 May 2011

Marco Protopapa

European Central Bank (ECB)

Date Written: March 15, 2011

Abstract

This work investigates the role of equity ownership for the purpose of committing the management to the pursuit of shareholder value in the presence of separation between ownership and control. By rooting the conflicts of interests between managers and shareholders upon the control of internal funds, a simple model allows to analyse the link between profit uncertainty, growth options and decisional powers. Implications are derived for the optimal degree of equity concentration, the effect of firm fundamentals on the allocation of income and control rights, and the pay for luck phenomenon. First, optimal equity ownership is positively related to the short-term performance of the firm and negatively related to both its growth options and riskiness of cash flows. Second, optimal equity ownership is negatively related to the probability of the firm being financially constrained, in the sense that the level of desired investment exceeds internally available resources. It is also shown that straight debt alone does not implement the second best, in absence of a large shareholder. Finally, an interesting result shows that, in presence of financial constraints, pay for luck is associated in equilibrium to a lower optimal degree of ownership concentration: pay for luck and looser governance, as implemented by the internal discipliner of equity concentration, emerge as the equilibrium result of a constrained incentive problem.

Keywords: capital structure, payout policies, corporate governance, corporate control

JEL Classification: G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Protopapa, Marco, Managerial Incentives, Financial Constraints and Ownership Concentration (March 15, 2011). Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 798, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1832342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1832342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
135 References
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding Family Ownership and Firm Performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1327 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A A Berle , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Agents with and without Principals
American Economic Review , volume 90 , p. 203 - 208 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Burkart , D Gromb , F Panunzi
Large Shareholders, Monitoring and the Value of the Firm
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 113 , p. 693 - 728 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
20 Citations
Alessio Anzuini , Fabio Fornari
Macroeconomic Determinants of Carry Trade Activity
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 817 · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 115
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alessandro Calza , Andrea Zaghini
Welfare Costs of Inflation and the Circulation of US Currency Abroad
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 812 · 38 Pages · Posted: 17 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 62
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Valter Di Giacinto , Giacinto Micucci
Quality Upgrading of Italian Manufactures: Evidence from Firms’ Prices and Strategies
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 804 · 42 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2011 · Downloads: 88
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Piero Cipollone , Alfonso Rosolia
Schooling and Youth Mortality: Learning from a Mass Military Exemption
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 811 · 56 Pages · Posted: 17 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 86
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,977
RANK
446,506
20 Citations
135 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Italy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies