Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Organization, Market Structure and Risk-Taking: Evidence from U.S. Commercial Banks

46 Pages Posted: 11 May 2011 Last revised: 30 May 2012

Martin Richard Goetz

Deutsche Bundesbank - Research Centre; Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

Date Written: April 18, 2012

Abstract

This paper studies how a bank’s diversification affects its own risk taking behavior and the risk taking of competing, nondiversified banks. In particular, I test whether greater geographic diversification of banks has effects on the risk taking behavior of nondiversified competitors beyond effects on risk due to competition. Empirical results obtained from the U.S. commercial banking sector indicate that a bank’s risk taking is lower when its competitors have a more diversified branch network. By utilizing the state-specific timing of a removal of intrastate branching restrictions in two identification strategies, I further pin down a causal relationship between the diversification of competitors and a bank’s risk taking behavior. These findings indicate that a bank’s diversification also impacts the risk taking of competitors, even if these banks are not diversifying their activities.

Keywords: Risk Taking, Competition, Commercial Banks, Diversification

JEL Classification: D23, D43, D82, G21, G28, L22

Suggested Citation:

Goetz, Martin Richard, Bank Organization, Market Structure and Risk-Taking: Evidence from U.S. Commercial Banks (April 18, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1836679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1836679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
F Allen , D Gale
Comparing Financial Systems Posted: 2000
D Amel , N Liang
The Relationship between Entry into Banking Markets and Changes in Legal Restrictions on Entry
Antitrust Bulletin , p. 631 - 649 Posted: 1992
Crossref
T Beck , R Levine , A Levkov
Big Bad Banks: The Winners and Losers from Bank Deregulation in the United States
Journal of Finance , volume 65 , p. 1637 - 1667 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A N Berger , T H Hannan
The Price-Concentration Relationship in Banking
The Review of Economics and Statistics , p. 291 - 299 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
David VanHoose
Implications of Shifting Retail Market Shares for Loan Monitoring in a Dominant‐Bank Model
Scottish Journal of Political Economy , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 291 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,138
RANK
302,262
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Bank Risk Taking and Competition Revisited

By John H. Boyd and Gianni De Nicolo

Liberalization, Moral Hazard in Banking and Prudential Regulation: Are Capital Requirements Enough?

By Thomas F. Hellmann and Kevin C. Murdock

Competition and Financial Stability

By Franklin Allen and Douglas M. Gale

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies