Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Termination Fees and Efficient Merger Contracts

33 Pages Posted: 13 May 2011 Last revised: 4 Jun 2014

Georgios Farfaras

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Peter B. Morgan

University at Buffalo

Date Written: May 31, 2014

Abstract

We present a model in which mutual gains from trade motivate the use of termination provisions in merger contracts. The inclusion of a termination provision in the contract permits Pareto efficient merger contracts and results in strictly higher payoffs for both bidder and target compared to contracts without termination fees. The fees are revealed not to be primarily a form of bidder insurance, although they do increase the probability that a merger is consummated. The model provides a rich collection of predictions, all of which are consistent with the empirical regularities reported to date.

Keywords: Mergers, Termination Fee, Takeover Premium, Nash Bargaining

JEL Classification: G34, K22, C71, C78, D8

Suggested Citation:

Farfaras, Georgios and Morgan, Peter B., Termination Fees and Efficient Merger Contracts (May 31, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1838782 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1838782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
P André , S Khalil , M Magnan
Termination Fees in Mergers and Acquisitions: Protecting Investors or Managers?
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 541 - 566 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T Bates , M M Lemmon
Breaking Up Is Hard To Do? An Empirical Analysis of Termination Fee Provisions in Merger Agreements
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , p. 469 - 504 Posted: 2003
Crossref
E Berkovitch , M Bradley , N Khanna
Tender Offer Auctions, Resistance Strategies, and Social Welfare
Journal of Law, Economics and Organisation , volume 5 , p. 395 - 412 Posted: 1989
Crossref
E Berkovitch , N Khanna
How Target Shareholders Benefit From Value-Reducing Defensive Strategies in Takeover
Journal of Finance , volume 45 , p. 137 - 156 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,857
RANK
267,591
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Market for Corporate Control: The Scientific Evidence

By Richard S. Ruback and Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers

By Gregor Andrade, Mark L. Mitchell, ...

Do Managerial Objectives Drive Bad Acquisitions?

By Randall Morck, Andrei Shleifer, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies