Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multi-Stage Capital Budgeting for Shared Investments

Management Science, 2013

28 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2011 Last revised: 22 Mar 2017

Nicole Bastian Johnson

University of Oregon

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This paper studies the performance of delegated decision-making schemes in a two-stage, multi-division capital budgeting problem for a shared investment with an inherent abandonment option. Applying both robust goal congruence and sequential adverse selection frameworks, we show that the optimal capital budgeting mechanism entails a capital charge rate above the firm's cost of capital in the first stage, but below the cost of capital in the second stage. Further, the first-stage asset cost-sharing rule depends only on the relative divisional growth profiles and equal cost sharing can be optimal even when the divisions receive significantly different benefits from the shared investment project. In the presence of an adverse selection problem, all agency costs are incorporated into the second-stage budgeting mechanism, leaving the first-stage capital charge rate and asset sharing rule unaffected even though the agency problem induces capital rationing at both stages.

Keywords: Capital Budgeting, Cooperative Investments, Two-Stage Investment Decisions, Abandonment Options, Cost Allocation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Nicole Bastian and Pfeiffer, Thomas and Schneider, Georg Thomas, Multi-Stage Capital Budgeting for Shared Investments (2013). Management Science, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1857655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1857655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Antle , P Bogetoft , A Stark
Information systems, incentives and the timing of investments
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 4 - 5 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Antle , P Bogetoft , A Stark ; R. Antle , P
Incentive problems and investment timing options Posted: 2007
Crossref
Essays in Accounting Theory in Honor of Joel S Demski , p. 145 - 168
Crossref
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,212
RANK
277,353
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Providing Managerial Incentives: Cash Flows Versus Accrual Accounting

By Stefan J. Reichelstein

Accrual-Based Compensation, Depreciation and Investment Decisions

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Controlling Investment Decisions: Depreciation- and Capital Charges

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies