Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expertise, Structure, and Reputation of Corporate Boards

64 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2011 Last revised: 6 Jul 2012

Doron Levit

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Center for Economic and Policy Research

Date Written: July 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper studies the optimal structure of the board with an emphasis on the expertise of directors. The analysis provides three main results. First, the expertise of a value-maximizing board can harm shareholder value. Second, it is optimal to design a board whose members are biased against the manager, especially when their expertise is high. Third, directors' desire to demonstrate expertise can shift power from the board to the manager on the expense of shareholders. The effect of these reputation concerns is amplified when the communication within the boardroom is transparent.

Keywords: Board of Directors, Communication, Information Acquisition, Expertise, Reputation, Transparency

JEL Classification: D74, D82, D83, L14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Levit, Doron, Expertise, Structure, and Reputation of Corporate Boards (July 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1866384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1866384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Ren´ee B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007-01
Crossref
Cindy R Alexander , A Mark , Duane J Chen , Chester S Seppi , Spatt
The Role of Advisory Services in Proxy Voting Posted: 2008
Crossref
Andres Almazan , Javier Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Nina Baranchuk , Philip H Dybvig
Consensus in diverse corporate boards
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 715 - 747 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
526
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,745
RANK
121,963
12 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies