Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and the Efficient Provision of Capital to Privately Informed Firms

50 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2011

Michael J. Smith

Boston University School of Management

Date Written: June 27, 2011

Abstract

This study addresses conservatism in financial reporting. Firms seek financing for an investment. Investors have access to an imperfect accounting signal that may also have a conservative tendency. If the firms have no private information, conservatism is desirable only for negative ex ante expected value investments, consistent with the spirit of the results of Gigler et al (2009) and other studies. Conservatism is not optimal for positive expected value investments because it denies financing to too many of them. If firms have private information, however, conservatism may be desirable even for positive expected value investments. Conservatism is useful in this setting because it increases the probability that privately informed good firms will be able to distinguish themselves from bad firms. Otherwise, good firms prefer not to invest and the financing market fails.

Keywords: accounting, conservatism, asymmetric information

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G31

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Michael J., Accounting Conservatism and the Efficient Provision of Capital to Privately Informed Firms (June 27, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1873449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1873449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Conservative accounting choices
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R Bushman , R Indjejikian
Stewardship value of "distorted" accounting disclosures
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 765 - 782 Posted: 1993
R Bushman , J Piotroski
Financial reporting incentives for conservative accounting: the influence of legal and political institutions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 107 - 148 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Francois Larmande , Hervé Stolowy
Managerial Traits, Accounting Conservatism and the Delegation of Financial Reporting
HEC Paris Research Paper No. FIN-2017-1215 · 35 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 10 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 431
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,034
RANK
324,308
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies