Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limited Market Participation and Asset Prices in the Presence of Earnings Management

FRB International Finance Discussion Paper No. 1019

46 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2011

Bo Sun

University of Virginia Darden School of Business

Date Written: June 21, 2011

Abstract

We examine the role of earnings management in explaining the properties of asset prices and stock market participation. We demonstrate that investors' uncertainty about the extent of manipulation can cause excess movements in stock price relative to fluctuations in output. When faced with information asymmetry about fundamentals in the presence of earnings management, investors demand a higher equity premium for bearing the additional risk associated with their payoffs. In addition, when investors have heterogeneous beliefs about managerial manipulation, the dispersion in belief endogenously gives rise to limited stock market participation. Our model suggests that the increasing stringency of corporate governance and varying composition of investors may have played a role in the contemporaneous run-up of market participation rates in the recent years.

Keywords: Earnings management, excess volatility, equity premium, limited stock market participation

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Bo, Limited Market Participation and Asset Prices in the Presence of Earnings Management (June 21, 2011). FRB International Finance Discussion Paper No. 1019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1893042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1893042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
F Allen , D Gale
Limited Market Participation and Volatility of Asset Prices
American Economic Review , volume 84 , p. 933 - 955 Posted: 1994
H H Cao , T Wang , H H Zhang
Model Uncertainty, Limited Market Participation, and Asset Prices
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1219 - 1251 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S G Cecchetti , P Lam , N Mark
Asset Pricing with Distorted Belief: Are Equity Returns Too Good to Be True?
American Economic Review , volume 4 , p. 787 - 805 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J B Detemple
Asset Pricing in a Production Economy with Incomplete Information
The Journal of Finance , volume 41 , p. 381 - 391 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,723
RANK
677,550
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Agency-Based Asset Pricing

By Gary B. Gorton, Ping He, ...

Agency-Based Asset Pricing

By Gary B. Gorton and Ping He

Why Managers Hold Shares of Their Firm: An Empirical Analysis

By Ulf Von Lilienfeld-toal and Stefan Ruenzi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies