Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Bonus Pools

AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

42 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2011 Last revised: 17 Nov 2023

Jörg Budde

University of Bonn - Economic Science Area

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

We study the properties of long-term bonus pools with rollover provision in a multi-period moral hazard setting, where the principal uses subjective information to privately assess the agent’s performance and the agent is protected by limited liability. To provide incentives, the principal funds a multi-period bonus pool with a fixed payment that may be distributed over time to the agent and a third party. We find that the optimal long-term bonus-pool contract features performance targets that are contingent on past performance. Specifically, high subjective performance implies an easy target, and low subjective performance implies a difficult target. To implement the long-term bonus-pool contract, the principal provides non-dichotomous performance reports. The study contributes to the literature that discusses the mechanisms that make subjective performance information useful for incentive contracting.

Keywords: Bonus Pool, Dynamic Agency, Subjective Performance Evalution, Verifiability

JEL Classification: D82, M40, M52

Suggested Citation:

Budde, Jörg and Hofmann, Christian, Dynamic Bonus Pools (October 24, 2023). AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1899204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1899204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R Antle , J Fellingham
Resource rationing and organizational slack in a twoperiod model
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1990
S Baiman , M Rajan
The informational advantages of discretionary bonus schemes
The Accounting Review , volume 70 , issue 4 , p. 557 - 579 Posted: 1995
G Baker , R Gibbons , K Murphy
Subjective performance measures in optimal incentive contracts
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 1125 - 1156 Posted: 1994
T Baldenius , J Glover , H Xue
Relational contracts with and between agents
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , issue 2-3 , p. 369 - 390 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,940
RANK
187,924
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Subjectivity and the Weighting of Performance Measures: Evidence from a Balanced Scorecard

By Christopher D. Ittner, David F. Larcker, ...

Causes and Effects of Subjectivity in Incentives

By Michael Gibbs, Kenneth A. Merchant, ...

Discretion in Executive Incentive Contracts: Theory and Evidence

By Kevin J. Murphy and Paul Oyer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies