Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Quality Disclosure Under Price-Signaling Competition

Managerial and Decision Economics, Forthcoming

Posted: 6 Sep 2011

Fabio Caldieraro

University of Washington

Dongsoo Shin

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Andrew Stivers

FDA

Date Written: August 4, 2011

Abstract

We analyze an oligopolistic competition with differentiated products and qualities. The quality of a product is not known to consumers. Each firm can make an imperfect disclosure of its product quality before engaging in price-signaling competition. There are two regimes for separating equilibrium in our model depending on the parameters. Our analysis reveals that, in one of the separating regimes, price signaling leads to intense price competition between the firms under which not only the high-quality firm, but also the low-quality firm chooses to disclose its product quality to soften the price competition.

Keywords: oligopoly, price competition, signaling, voluntary quality disclosure

JEL Classification: D82, L13, L15, M3

Suggested Citation:

Caldieraro, Fabio and Shin, Dongsoo and Stivers, Andrew, Voluntary Quality Disclosure Under Price-Signaling Competition (August 4, 2011). Managerial and Decision Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905267
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies