Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Say on Pay, Governance Quality, and Shareholder Pressure

AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

48 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2011 Last revised: 26 Aug 2019

Robert F. Göx

University of Zurich - Managerial Accounting; University of Zurich - Faculty of Economics, Business Administration and Information Technology

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

I examine the economic consequences of Say on Pay (SoP) for firms with different governance qualities in a setting where shareholders face informational constraints in evaluating the efficiency of the firm's compensation policy and where the firm's governance structure is endogenous. I find that the effectiveness of SoP critically depends on the firm's governance quality and its ability to adjust the board structure in response to the new regulation. However, a more effective SoP regime not necessarily benefits shareholders because it equally prevents properly (poorly) governed firms from neutralizing the unintended (intended) consequences of SoP on its compensation policy by nominating a more CEO-friendly compensation committee.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Compensation Committee, Executive Compensation, Say on Pay, Shareholder Activism.

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K22, M12, M48

Suggested Citation:

Goex, Robert F., Say on Pay, Governance Quality, and Shareholder Pressure (October 1, 2013). AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1908592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1908592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 519 - 540 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Apple Inc
Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Posted: 2015-02-17
J E Bachelder
Say-on-Pay": Assessing Impact After Four Years. Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation Posted: 2015-02-17
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,245
RANK
158,915
7 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Shareholder Initiatives: Empirical Evidence

By Jonathan M. Karpoff, Paul H. Malatesta, ...

Shareholder Passivity Reexamined

By Bernard S. Black

The Impact of Shareholder Activism on Target Companies: A Survey of Empirical Findings

By Jonathan M. Karpoff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies