Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Note on the Properties of Aggregate Evaluation of Budget Proposals

AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

20 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2011 Last revised: 15 Aug 2011

Steven Schwartz

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Austin Sudbury

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Richard A. Young

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: August 12, 2011

Abstract

Agency research on capital budgeting has demonstrated that a principal can reduce information rents by contracting on several investment projects in aggregate rather than on each investment project individually. We investigate the robustness of this result in a model that facilitates comparative statics. We find that the relative advantage of aggregation over individual evaluation is maximized for intermediate levels of expected profitability and intermediate levels of the variability of profitability. We also explore the effects of correlated project outcomes. We find that if aggregation is beneficial, its benefit is decreasing in the correlation between the projects’ profitability. Applications of our results are discussed.

Keywords: budgeting, performance evaluation

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Schwartz, Steven and Sudbury, Austin and Young, Richard A., A Note on the Properties of Aggregate Evaluation of Budget Proposals (August 12, 2011). AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1909038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1909038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R Antle , R Bogetoft , A Stark
Selection From Many Investments With Managerial Private Information
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 999 , p. 397 - 418
Crossref
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital Rationing and Organizational Slack In Capital Budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , p. 63 - 74 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Antle , J Fellingham
Resource Rationing and Organizational Slack in a Two-Period Model
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1990
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , P Liang
Inter-Temporal Aggregation and Incentives
European Accounting Review , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 643 - 57 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Philip M. Nichols
The Neoercantilist Fallacy and the Contextual Reality of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
Harvard Journal on Legislation (Winter 2016, Forthcoming) · 43 Pages · Posted: 22 Feb 2015 · Last revised: 30 Jun 2015 · Downloads: 179
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,458
RANK
325,744
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies