Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interim Performance Measures and Private Information

Accounting Review, September 2013, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 1683-1714.

53 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2011 Last revised: 3 Jul 2014

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Naomi Rothenberg

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: December 28, 2012

Abstract

This study investigates whether having an upstream or downstream agent privately observe an interim performance measure and disseminating this measure to the other agent is valuable to the principal. The signal is informative about the upstream agent’s action and positively correlated with output. If the upstream agent privately observes the signal, there can be a higher cost of the downstream agent if the signal is sufficiently forward-looking. If the downstream agent privately observes the signal, the tradeoff involves rents to the downstream agent versus a reduced cost for the upstream agent. Private observation of an interim signal is valuable to the principal if it is not too forward-looking. The choice between upstream and downstream agent depends non-trivially on the signal’s backward-looking quality. The results suggest that the value of observation and dissemination of an interim signal depends on the informativeness of output and the signal about upstream and downstream production.

Keywords: principal-agent theory, asymmetric information, interim performance measures, balanced scorecard

JEL Classification: D82, D83, L20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Christian and Rothenberg, Naomi, Interim Performance Measures and Private Information (December 28, 2012). Accounting Review, September 2013, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 1683-1714., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1909321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1909321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Arya , J Glover
Bailouts and unwanted coordination
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 117 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
S Baiman
The evaluation and choice of internal information systems within a multiperson world
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1975
Crossref
------- , J Evans
Pre-decision information and participative management control Systems
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,777
RANK
306,185
3 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies