Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accrual Accounting, Informational Sufficiency, and Equity Valuation

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2011

Alexander Nezlobin

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: August 23, 2011

Abstract

This paper studies accrual accounting and equity valuation in the context of a firm that makes repeated and overlapping investments in productive capacity. The analysis identifies a particular accrual accounting (depreciation) rule that is termed replacement cost accounting because the book value of existing capacity assets is set equal to the value that such assets would have if a competitive market were to exist for used assets. It is shown that replacement cost accounting aggregates past investment decisions of the firm without a loss of value-relevant information. The intrinsic value of the firm can then be expressed as a function of current accounting data and certain parameters of the firm's operating environment. Further, it is shown that replacement cost accounting is essentially the only accounting rule with this informational sufficiency property.

Keywords: equity valuation, accrual accounting, depreciation

JEL Classification: G29, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nezlobin, Alexander, Accrual Accounting, Informational Sufficiency, and Equity Valuation (August 23, 2011). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1915637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Arya , J C Fellingham , J C Glover , D A Schroeder , G
Crossref
Strang
Inferring Transactions from Financial Statements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 385 Posted: 2000
K Arrow
Optimal Capital Policy, Cost of Capital and Myopic Decision Rules
Annals of the Institute of Statistical Mathematics , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 21 - 30 Posted: 1964
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The Relevance of the Value-Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,366
RANK
196,969
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Depreciation Rules and the Relation Between Marginal and Historical Cost

By Madhav V. Rajan and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Depreciation Rules and the Relation Between Marginal and Historical Cost

By Madhav V. Rajan and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Macroeconomic Variables and the E/P Ratio

By Prem C. Jain and Joshua G. Rosett

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies