Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Noise Hedging and Executive Compensation

35 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2011 Last revised: 12 Jan 2022

Neil A. Doherty

University of Pennsylvania - Insurance & Risk Management Department; University of Pennsylvania - Business & Public Policy Department

James R. Garven

Baylor University - Department of Finance, Insurance & Real Estate

Sven Sinclair

Social Security Administration

Date Written: April 15, 2013

Abstract

We address two apparent paradoxes of risk management: (1) managers hedge in order to avoid negative earnings surprises, yet they tend to hedge risks uninformative of the value of the company; and (2) the presence of options in managers’ compensation distorts their incentive to hedge, inducing them to expose the company to too much risk. Our model is based on informational asymmetry between insiders (managers) and outsiders (investors). Investors derive information about company value from net cash flows (earnings), but the information revealed through earnings depends on the risk management strategy pursued by managers. Fully revealing earnings information is in the investors’ interest, so they design a compensation package to induce managers to make the earnings fully informative. With appropriate assumptions, we show that managers will select the efficient hedge strategy if their compensation includes stock options. Our model also provides a rational explanation for the observed vigorous response of stock prices to modest earnings surprises. Results based upon the analysis of Compustat and Execucomp data provide empirical support for our model; other things equal, firms that offer their CEO’s proportionately higher options-related compensation exhibit stronger stock price responses to changes in earnings and tend to have higher Tobin’s q’s.

Keywords: Employee stock options, Incentives, Executive compensation

JEL Classification: G30, J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Doherty, Neil A. and Garven, James R. and Sinclair, Sven, Noise Hedging and Executive Compensation (April 15, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1915206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1915206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
References Bartov , Dan Eli , Carla Givoly , Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Lucian A Bebchuk , Alma Cohen
The costs of entrenched boards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 409 - 433 Posted: 2005
Ravi Bhushan
Firm characteristics and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 2-3 , p. 255 - 274 Posted: 1989
Douglas Breeden , S Viswanathan
Why Do Firms Hedge? An Asymmetric Information Model Posted: 1998
Load more
1 Citations
Marcel Boyer , M. Martin Boyer , René Garcia
Alleviating Coordination Problems and Regulatory Constraints Through Financial Risk Management
CIRANO - Scientific Publication No. 2011s-48 · 46 Pages · Posted: 30 Aug 2011 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,362
RANK
264,473
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies