Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theoretical Role of the Most Recent Prior Period’s Equity Price in Value Relevance Studies

Journal for Advanced Research in Commerce and Management Studies, 2015, Volume 2, Issue 2, pp. 49-68, ISSN: 2394-837X

32 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2011 Last revised: 7 Oct 2016

Samithamby Senthilnathan

International Training Institute

Date Written: September 2, 2011

Abstract

This paper uses the Ohlson (1995) model and other related literature to theoretically demonstrate that the empirical specification of value relevance models with current or next period’s equity price as the dependent variable can be vastly improved when they utilize the most recent prior period’s equity price as an additional explanatory variable. The explanation further indicates that value relevance studies that use the Ohlson (1995) model should employ change in price or else returns, not the price level, as the dependent variable. These improvements to the empirical specification are shown to be important when past share price is highly correlated with important information that affects future earnings. This study reformulates the Ohlson (1995) value relevance model to demonstrate how it accommodates the most recent prior period equity price as an additional explanatory variable and also demonstrates how the earnings-based value relevance regression model equations can be used to improve the empirical specification for investigating the value relevance of an accounting variable.

Keywords: accounting, earnings, equity price, price change, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M49, G12

Suggested Citation:

Senthilnathan, Samithamby, Theoretical Role of the Most Recent Prior Period’s Equity Price in Value Relevance Studies (September 2, 2011). Journal for Advanced Research in Commerce and Management Studies, 2015, Volume 2, Issue 2, pp. 49-68, ISSN: 2394-837X, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1921647 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1921647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Raj Aggarwal , Raj Aggarwal , Nyo Nyo A. Kyaw
Equity Market Integration in the NAFTA Region: Evidence from Unit Root and Cointegration Tests
Pages: 24 Posted: 5 Jan 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K Ahmed , H Falk
The value relevance of management's research and development reporting choice: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K H Bae , S W Jeong
The value relevance of earnings and book value, ownership structure, and business group affiliation: evidence from Korean business groups
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 34 , p. 740 - 766 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M E Barth , M B Clement , G Foster , R Kasznik
Brand values and capital market valuation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 41 - 68 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,935
RANK
456,571
3 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Information Perspective and Usefulness of Accounting Information

By Samithamby Senthilnathan

Acquisition-Related Provision-Taking and Post-Acquisition Performance in the UK Prior to Frs 7

By Stephen Brown, Ole-kristian Hope, ...

NAFTA and Convergence in North America: High Expectations, Big Events, Little Time

By William Easterly, Norbert M. Fiess, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies