Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Information and Unknown Capital Market Participants

23 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2011

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Andreas Loeffler

Freie Universität Berlin

Date Written: May 30, 2011

Abstract

We consider a single-period, pure-exchange setting with a single trading date and a single consumption date. Investors are uncertain about the risk aversion of the other investors participating in the capital market, implying that the market’s aggregate risk aversion is a random variable. Unlike the setting where investors are fully informed about the market’s aggregate risk aversion, we find that investors can have a strict preference for releasing public information prior to trading. In particular, we identify conditions under which the information risk problem does not arise. Our study complements other research into the source of value for publicly reported accounting information.

Keywords: public information, equilibrium, unkown risk aversion

JEL Classification: D81, G14

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Christian and Loeffler, Andreas, Public Information and Unknown Capital Market Participants (May 30, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1926245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1926245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
C Armstrong , S Banerjee , C Corona
Information Quality, Systematic Risk and the Cost of Capital
McCombs Research Paper Series Posted: 2008
K J Arrow , G Debreu
Existence of an equilibrium for a competitive economy
Econometrica , volume 22 , p. 265 - 290 Posted: 1954
C Camerer , G Loewenstein , D Prelec
Neuroeconomics: How Neuroscience Can Inform Economics
Journal of Economic Literature , p. 8 - 64 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P O Christensen , G A Feltham
Economics of Accouting -Volume I: Information in Markets Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,915
RANK
524,565
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies