Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Consequences of Expanding Accounting Recognition

35 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2011 Last revised: 28 Sep 2017

Wei Li

University of Washington-Bothell; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Pierre Jinghong Liang

Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Date Written: February 8, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the economic consequences of including more hard-to-measure future activities in a firm's accounting measurements. Using a simple model of endogenous investment in which payoffs are measured by either a restrictive or expanded recognition rule, we show that, in the process of expanding accounting recognition, firms' internal investment efficiency and external share-price risk premium may not necessarily be a trade-off. In particular, we show that the consequences of an accounting scope expansion depend on the investment environment (e.g., growth prospects) and the inherent measurement characteristics (e.g., measurement noise). For example, even with a higher measurement noise, an expanded accounting recognition may generate a lower risk premium in the share price. More surprisingly, it may lead to a higher investment efficiency and a lower risk premium at the same time. The underlying driving force is that different accounting regimes can affect the risk premium indirectly through their impacts on the investment level, beyond directly through the different measurement noise levels they bring.

Keywords: accounting measurement regimes; measurement scope; measurement noise; risk premium

JEL Classification: G12, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Wei and Liang, Pierre Jinghong and Wen, Xiaoyan, The Economic Consequences of Expanding Accounting Recognition (February 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1929057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1929057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A Arya , J C Fellingham , J C Glover , D A Schroeder , G Strang
Inferring Transactions from Financial Statements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , p. 366 - 385 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Bertomeu , R Magee
From low-quality reporting to …nancial crises: Politics of disclosure regulation along the economic cycle
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , p. 209 - 227 Posted: 2011
Crossref
-- , --
Political Pressures and the Evolution of Disclosure Regulation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 775 - 802 Posted: 2015
A Beyer
Capital Market Prices, Management Forecasts, and Earnings Management
The Accounting Review , volume 64 , issue 6 , p. 1713 - 1747 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,342
RANK
708,207
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Reliability-Relevance Trade-Offs and the Efficiency of Aggregation

By Ronald A. Dye and Sri S. Sridhar

Stock Price, Earnings and Book Value in Managerial Performance Measures

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Imprecision in Accounting Measurement: Can it Be Value Enhancing?

By Chandra Kanodia, Rajdeep Singh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies