Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Exit Through Bankruptcy – The Effect of Accounting Bias on Product Market Competition

40 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2011

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Bjorn Jorgensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 27, 2011

Abstract

We analyze the effect of accounting biases on the profits of firms that compete in a Cournot product market. We find accounting biases strictly decrease firms' profits when the firms are fully equity-financed. However, different results emerge when we introduce debt into the firms' financial structures. Firms must report interim accounting signals, on which their debt covenants are based. We contrast firms' profits under an unbiased accounting system, a conservative accounting system and an aggressive accounting system. Conservative accounting system increases the likelihood of debt covenant violations and firm liquidation. Interestingly, the increased likelihood of liquidation could make the borrowing firms better off by turning the surviving firm into a monopolist that captures the entire market share. In addition, conservative accounting bias gives the banks more decision rights in liquidating or re-organizing the firms' operations, thus reducing the "excessive liquidation" problem. Absent renegotation, conservative accounting system improves the banks' payoffs.

Keywords: accounting bias, conservatism, debt, Cournot Competition

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Jørgensen, Bjørn N, Firm Exit Through Bankruptcy – The Effect of Accounting Bias on Product Market Competition (September 27, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1934456 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1934456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
S Athey , K Bagwell
Optimal collusion with private information
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 428 - 465 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K Bagwell
Commitment and observability in games
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 280 Posted: 1995
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Oligopoly, disclosure, and earnings management
The Accounting Review Posted: 2010-06
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Henry L. Friedman , John S. Hughes , Richard E. Saouma
Implications of Biased Reporting: Conservative and Liberal Accounting Policies in Oligopolies
Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 21, No. 1, 2016 · 38 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2013 · Last revised: 10 May 2019 · Downloads: 405
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Edwige Cheynel , Amir Ziv
On Market Concentration and Disclosure
35 Pages · Posted: 5 May 2020 · Downloads: 273
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jumpei Hamamura
Disclosure Policy for Relative Performance Indicators under Product Market Competition
50 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 6 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 224
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Arshed Iqbal , Jamshed Iqbal , Arto Ojala
Foreign Divestment and the Insolvency Risk: Evidence from Nordic Firms
IREF-D-24-00219 · 45 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 35
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,495
RANK
227,558
4 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies