Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agency Costs, Information, and the Structure of Corporate Debt Covenants

45 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2011 Last revised: 14 Feb 2012

Richard Lowery

University of Texas-Austin

Malcolm Wardlaw

University of Georgia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 17, 2011

Abstract

We analyze the determinants of covenant structure in private debt contracts. While previous studies have demonstrated a relationship between firm characteristics and the overall strictness of loan contracts, few studies have examined why covenants are written on a range of accounting variables and what determines their selective use. Using a simple model of firm investment where firms face uncertain cash flows and investment opportunities, we characterize the conditions under which it is optimal for a debt contract to specify a restriction on investment or to specify a minimum cash flow realization. Consistent with this model, we find that the application of covenants based on these variables is not necessarily monotonic in firm risk. While the financially riskiest firms tend to employ capital expenditure covenants, cash flow and net worth covenants are most common among moderately risky firms with greater profitability and firms with stronger banking relationships. The results also highlight the importance of debt covenants in both mitigating agency frictions and maximizing the value of future private information.

Suggested Citation:

Lowery, Richard and Wardlaw, Malcolm, Agency Costs, Information, and the Structure of Corporate Debt Covenants (November 17, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1942937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1942937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
V V Acharya , H Almeida , M Campello
Is cash negative debt? A hedging perspective on corporate financial policies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 515 - 554 Posted: 2007
Crossref
V V Acharya , D Gale , T Yorulmazer
Rollover risk and market freezes
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series Posted: 2010-01
Crossref
E Berglöf , E Von Thadden
Short-Term versus Long-Term interests: Capital structure with multiple investors
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 1055 - 1084 Posted: 1994-11
Crossref
S T Bharath , S Dahiya , A Saunders , A Srinivasan
Lending relationships and loan contract terms
Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 1141 - 1203 Posted: 2011-04
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Robert Krainer
Financial Contracting as Behavior Towards Risk
47 Pages · Posted: 15 Apr 2014 · Downloads: 85
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert Krainer
Financial Contracting As Behavior Towards Risk: The Corporate Finance of Business Cycles
51 Pages · Posted: 20 Jul 2016 · Downloads: 161
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
398
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,013
RANK
101,424
2 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Large-Sample Evidence on the Debt Covenant Hypothesis

By Ilia D. Dichev and Douglas J. Skinner

How Does Financing Impact Investment? The Role of Debt Covenants

By Sudheer Chava and Michael R. Roberts

Syndicated Loans

By Steven A. Dennis and Donald J. Mullineaux

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies