Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Design of Financial Maintenance Covenants

75 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2011 Last revised: 16 Feb 2015

Redouane Elkamhi

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Latchezar Popov

University of Virginia

Raunaq S. Pungaliya

Sungkyunkwan University (SKK) Graduate School of Business

Date Written: February 1, 2015

Abstract

This article focuses on financial maintenance covenants as incentive instruments for borrowers under both moral hazard and adverse selection. We explain why maintenance covenants are conditioned on public information. We examine the effect of the firm's incentive to risk-shift, debt amount, and renegotiation costs on optimal covenants. In an extension of the model, we find that a reduction in financial signal quality 1) moves the equilibrium from pooling to separating, to no covenants at all, and 2) has a non-monotone effect on covenant strictness. We also allow for uncertainty in macroeconomic conditions and characterize state contingent covenants within our framework.

Keywords: Covenants, Moral Hazard, Contract Design

JEL Classification: G32, G21

Suggested Citation:

Elkamhi, Redouane and Popov, Latchezar and Pungaliya, Raunaq S., The Design of Financial Maintenance Covenants (February 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1943130 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1943130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An Incomplete Contracts Approach to Financial Contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Begley , S Chamberlain
The Use of Debt Covenants in Public Debt: The Role of Accounting Quality and Reputation Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Berlin , L Mester
Debt Covenants and Renegotiation
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 133 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M Billett , R Elkamhi , R Pungaliya , L Popov
Bank Skin in the Game and Loan Contract Design: Evidence from Covenant-Lite Loans
forthcoming in the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,085
RANK
272,962
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Large-Sample Evidence on the Debt Covenant Hypothesis

By Ilia D. Dichev and Douglas J. Skinner

How Does Financing Impact Investment? The Role of Debt Covenants

By Sudheer Chava and Michael R. Roberts

Syndicated Loans

By Steven A. Dennis and Donald J. Mullineaux

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies