Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Public Information with Asymmetrically Informed Short-Horizon Investors

44 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2012 Last revised: 27 Feb 2014

Qi Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Zeqiong Huang

Yale School of Management

Yun Zhang

George Washington University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 26, 2014

Abstract

This paper analyzes the effects of public information in a perfect competition trading model populated by asymmetrically informed short-horizon investors with different levels of private information precision. We first show that information asymmetry reduces the amount of private information revealed by price in equilibrium (i.e., price informativeness) and can lead to multiple linear equilibria. We then demonstrate that the presence of both information asymmetry and short horizons provides a channel through which public information ináuences price informativeness and equilibrium uniqueness. We identify conditions under which public information increases or decreases price informativeness, and when multiple equilibria may arise. Our analysis shows that public information not only directly endows prices with more (public) information, it can also have an important indirect effect on the degree to which prices reveal private information.

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Qi and Huang, Zeqiong and Zhang, Yun, The Effects of Public Information with Asymmetrically Informed Short-Horizon Investors (February 26, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1944328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1944328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Admati
A Noisy Rational Expectations Equilibrium for Multi-asset Securities Markets
Econometrica , volume 53 , p. 629 - 658 Posted: 1985
Crossref
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty Contests and Iterated Expectations in Asset Markets
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C Armstrong , J Core , D Taylor , R Verrecchia
When Does Information Asymmetry A¤ect the Cost of Capital?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,089
RANK
294,806
8 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Price Informativeness and Investment Sensitivity to Stock Price

By Qi Chen, Itay Goldstein, ...

Information Immobility and the Home Bias Puzzle

By Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh and Laura Veldkamp

Information Immobility and the Home Bias Puzzle

By Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh and Laura Veldkamp

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies