Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Information Disclosure in Financial Intermediation with Investment Risk

Journal of Financial Stability, Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2011 Last revised: 22 Dec 2019

Yi Chen

Cornell University; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Kai Du

Pennsylvania State University

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

We study how information disclosure affects financial intermediation when the payoff to the long-term investment is risky. The analysis is based on a business-cycle version of the bank run model wherein a bank provides risk sharing to demand depositors who experience unobservable shocks to their liquidity preferences. The bank pre-commits to the precision of an interim signal regarding the payoff to the long-term investment. We examine the impact of bank disclosure on optimal risk sharing achieved by run-proof, signal-contingent demand-deposit contracts. We show that for utility functions that display non-increasing absolute risk aversion, more informative disclosure improves the ex ante risk sharing provided by financial intermediation.

Keywords: financial intermediation; risk sharing; disclosure; non-increasing absolute risk aversion

JEL Classification: G21; G28

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yi and Du, Kai, The Role of Information Disclosure in Financial Intermediation with Investment Risk (July 1, 2019). Journal of Financial Stability, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1944949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1944949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
V Acharya , S Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Crossref
T Ahnert , C Georg
Information contagion and systemic risk
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 35 , p. 159 - 171 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Aiyar , C Calomiris , T Wieladek
Bank capital regulation: Theory, empirics, and policy
IMF Economic Review , volume 63 , p. 955 - 983 Posted: 2015
Crossref
F Allen , D Gale
Optimal financial crises
Journal of Finance , volume 53 , p. 1245 - 1284 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,122
RANK
713,531
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies