Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information Quality, Capital Requirements, and Banks' Risk Taking

39 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2011

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Lin Nan

Carnegie Mellon University

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: October 14, 2011

Abstract

We study the implications of accounting information quality on banks' risk-taking behavior. We show that the accounting information precision has a non-monotonic effect on banks' risk-taking decisions. Surprisingly, when information precision is low, an improvement in precision actually induces banks to take more risk. In addition, the relation between accounting information precision and risk taking is also contingent on the stringency of capital requirement standards and the competitiveness of the banking industry. In particular, when either the capital requirement or the competitiveness of the industry is sufficiently high, increasing accounting information precision restrains risk taking. Moreover, when we consider a liquidation cost of assets sale to fulfill the capital requirement, the effect of the capital requirement on risk-taking behavior becomes more subtle. Specifically, for the capital requirement policy to be an effective tool in disciplining banks' risk-taking behavior, either the banking industry should be highly competitive, or the accounting information should be sufficiently precise.

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Nan, Lin and Zhang, Gaoqing, Accounting Information Quality, Capital Requirements, and Banks' Risk Taking (October 14, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1944392 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1944392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
F Allen , D Gale
Comparing Financial Systems Posted: 2000
K Bagwell
Commitment and Observability in Games
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 8 , p. 271 - 280 Posted: 1995
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt , R Levine
Bank Concentration and Crises Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,590
RANK
213,801
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies