Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Pricing

Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 223-313, 2008

93 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2011

Tim Baldenius

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: October 19, 2008

Abstract

This monograph focuses on the use of incomplete contracting models to study transfer pricing. Intrafirm pricing mechanisms affect division managers' incentives to trade intermediate products and to undertake relationship-specific investments so as to increase the gains from trade. Letting managers negotiate over the transaction is known to cause holdup (underinvestment) problems. Yet, in the absence of external markets, negotiations frequently outperform cost-based mechanisms, because negotiations aggregate cost and revenue information more efficiently into prices. This result is established in a symmetric information setting and confirmed, with some qualification, for bargaining under incomplete information. In the latter case, trading and investment efficiency can be improved by adding non-financial performance measures to a divisional performance measurement system. When the intermediate product can also be sold in an imperfectly competitive external market, internal discounts on external market prices are shown often to improve the efficiency of intrafirm trade and of upfront investments.

Suggested Citation:

Baldenius, Tim, Internal Pricing (October 19, 2008). Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 223-313, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1946369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Since Prob{q n (θ, I 2 ) = 1} > Prob{q s (θ, I 2 ) = 1} by a comparison of Equations (A.18) and (A.19), it follows that I n
M Alles , S Datar
Strategic transfer pricing
Management Science , volume 44 , p. 451 - 461 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R Anctil , S Dutta
Negotiated transfer pricing and divisional vs. firm-wide performance evaluation
Accounting Review , volume 74 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 1999
Crossref
N Argyres
Technology strategy, governance structure and interdivisional coordination'
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 28 , p. 337 - 358 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Felix Feng , Mark M. Westerfield
Dynamic Resource Allocation with Hidden Volatility
Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming · 55 Pages · Posted: 23 Nov 2016 · Last revised: 18 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 515
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Felix Feng , Mark M. Westerfield
Dynamic Resource Allocation with Hidden Volatility
55 Pages · Posted: 28 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 60
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,642
RANK
250,789
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Cost Based Transfer Pricing

By Thomas Pfeiffer, Ulf Schiller, ...

Ownership, Incentives, and the Hold-Up Problem

By Tim Baldenius

Ownership, Incentives, and the Hold-Up Problem

By Tim Baldenius

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies