Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Endogenous Public Information and Welfare

IESE Business School Working Paper No. 925

37 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2011

Xavier Vives

University of Navarra - IESE Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 21, 2011

Abstract

This paper performs a welfare analysis of economies with private information when public information is endogenously generated and agents can condition on noisy public statistics in the rational expectations tradition. We find that equilibrium is not (restricted) efficient even when feasible allocations share similar properties to the market context (e.g., linear in information). The reason is that the market in general does not internalize the informational externality when public statistics (e.g., prices) convey information. Under strategic substitutability, equilibrium prices will tend to convey too little information when the 'informational' role of prices prevails over its index of scarcity role and too much information in the opposite case. Under strategic complementarity, prices always convey too little information. These results extend to the internal efficiency benchmark (accounting only for the collective welfare of the active players). However, received results - on the relative weights placed by agents on private and public information when the latter is exogenous - may be overturned.

Keywords: information externality, strategic complementary and substitutability, asymetric information, team solution, rational expectations, schedule competition, behavioral traders

Suggested Citation:

Vives, Xavier, Endogenous Public Information and Welfare (October 21, 2011). IESE Business School Working Paper No. 925, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1947311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M Amador , P O Weill
Learning from Private and Public Observations of Others' Actions
MPRA Paper , volume 109 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Amador , P O Weill
Learning from Prices: Public Communication and Welfare
Journal of Political Economy , volume 118 , p. 866 - 907 Posted: 2010
Crossref
G M Angeletos , J La
Dispersed Information over the Business Cycle: Optimal Fiscal and Monetary Policy Posted: 2010
G M Angeletos , A Pavan
Efficient Use of Information and Social Value of Information
Econometrica , volume 75 , p. 1103 - 1142 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
George-Marios Angeletos , Luigi Iovino , Jennifer La'O
Cycles, Gaps, and the Social Value of Information
MIT Department of Economics Working Paper No. 11-12 · 47 Pages · Posted: 10 Aug 2011 · Last revised: 18 Aug 2011 · Downloads: 100
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,373
RANK
314,223
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IESE Business School Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Declining Valuations and Equilibrium Bidding in Central Bank Refinancing Operations

By Christian Ewerhart, Nuno Cassola, ...

Strategic Supply Function Competition with Private Information

By Xavier Vives

Strategic Supply Function Competition with Private Information

By Xavier Vives

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies