Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric News and Asset Pricing

42 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2011

Jeroen Suijs

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: October 21, 2011

Abstract

This paper shows that in asset pricing the information environment gives rise to a systematic risk factor when the informativeness of future news events varies with their content (i.e., bad news and good news are not equally informative). The paper further shows that in such cases (cross) serial correlation in stock returns arises. The results provide new insights on on the relation between disclosure and cost of capital and on empirically documented patterns in stock returns like momentum and post earnings announcement drift.

Keywords: information, asset pricing, momentum, systematic risk factors

JEL Classification: D40, D80, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Suijs, Jeroen, Asymmetric News and Asset Pricing (October 21, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1947291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
R Antle , R Lambert
Accounting loss functions and induced preferences for conservatism
Economic analysis of information and contracts: Essays in honor of John E. Butterworth , p. 373 - 395 Posted: 1988
Crossref
J Baginski , M Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in us and canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Conservative accounting choices , volume 51 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball , S Kothari
Nonstationary expected returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 25 , p. 51 - 74 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Miles B. Gietzmann , Adam J. Ostaszewski
Why managers with low forecast precision select high disclosure intensity: an equilibrium analysis
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 121 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Miles B. Gietzmann , Adam J. Ostaszewski
Why Managers with Low Forecast Precision Select High Disclosure Intensity: An Equilibrium Analysis
49 Pages · Posted: 23 Feb 2012 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,792
RANK
360,957
2 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Intermediary Asset Pricing

By Zhiguo He and Arvind Krishnamurthy

A Model of Capital and Crises

By Zhiguo He and Arvind Krishnamurthy

A Model of Capital and Crises

By Zhiguo He and Arvind Krishnamurthy

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies