Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board of Director Collusion, Managerial Incentives and Firm Values

Quaderni DSE Working Paper No. 795

27 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2011

Rainer Andergassen

University of Bologna - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 28, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of board of director collusion on managerial incentives and firm values. Recent academic research hints at the social network of board of directors as an important conduit for coordinating corporate governance policies, such as managerial pay, and curbing competition. We study a model where managers can exert unobservable cost-cutting effort and investigate the consequences of and the incentives for coordinating managerial pay among corporate boards.

Keywords: Board of director collusion, managerial incentives, pay-for-performance sensitivity, firm values, managerial pay

JEL Classification: L1, J33, O31, M52

Suggested Citation:

Andergassen, Rainer, Board of Director Collusion, Managerial Incentives and Firm Values (October 28, 2011). Quaderni DSE Working Paper No. 795, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1950608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1950608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive Compensation, Strategic Competition, and Relative Performance Evaluation: Theory and Evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Barnea , I Guedj
Director Networks Posted: 2009
J Bizjak , M Lemmon , R Whitby
Option Backdating and Board Interlocks
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 4821 - 4847 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R S Burt
Corporate Profits and Co-optation: Networks of Market Constraints and Directorate Ties in the American Economy Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,463
RANK
375,436
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Board Interlocks and the Propensity to Be Targeted in Private Equity Transactions

By Toby Stuart and Soojin Yim

Board Interlocks and Earnings Management Contagion

By Peng-chia Chiu, Siew Hong Teoh, ...

Board Networks and the Cost of Corporate Debt

By Tuugi Chuluun, Andrew K. Prevost, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies