Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Patent Disclosure in Standard Setting

NET Institute Working Paper No. 11-15

48 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2011

Bernhard Ganglmair

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research - Junior Research Group Competition and Innovation; Mannheim Centre for Competition and Innovation (MaCCI); University of Mannheim - Department of Economics

Emanuele Tarantino

Luiss Guido Carli University; Einaudi Institute for Economics and Finance (EIEF)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2011

Abstract

We present a model of industry standard setting with two-sided asymmetric information about the existence of intellectual property. We provide an equilibrium analysis of (a) firms' incentives to communicate ideas for improvements of an industry standard, and (b) firms' decisions to disclose the existence of intellectual property to other participants of the standardization process.

Keywords: patent holdup, patent disclosure, standard setting organizations, industry standards, disclosure rules, conversation, asymmetric information, Bertrand competition

JEL Classification: D71, L15, O34

Suggested Citation:

Ganglmair, Bernhard and Tarantino, Emanuele, Patent Disclosure in Standard Setting (October 2011). NET Institute Working Paper No. 11-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1957991 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1957991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
J Anton , D Yao
Sale of Ideas: Strategic Disclosure, Property Rights, and Contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 69 , p. 513 - 531 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Anton , D Yao
Little Patents and Big Secrets: Managing Intellectual Property
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 35 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Justus Baron , Tim Christoph Pohlmann
Essential Patents and Coordination Mechanisms: The Effects of Patent Pools and Industry Consortia on the Interplay between Patents and Technological Standards
Pages: 36 Posted: 10 Aug 2010 Last revised: 22 Oct 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Chiao , J Lerner , J Tirole
The Rules of Standard Setting Organizations: An Empirical Analysis
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 905 - 930 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,921
RANK
274,044
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Vertical Integration with Complementary Inputs

By Markus Reisinger and Emanuele Tarantino

Patent Disclosure in Standard Setting

By Bernhard Ganglmair and Emanuele Tarantino

Licensing Policy and Technology Adoption in Standard Setting Organizations

By Emanuele Tarantino

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies