Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Income Smoothing When Insiders Know More than Outsiders

Forthcoming, Review of Financial Studies

54 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2011 Last revised: 24 Mar 2015

Viral V. Acharya

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Bart M. Lambrecht

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 10, 2015

Abstract

We develop a theory of income and payout smoothing by firms when insiders know more about income than outside shareholders, but property rights ensure that outsiders can enforce a fair payout. Insiders set payout to meet outsiders’ expectations and underproduce to manage future expectations downward. The observed income and payout process are smooth and adjust partially and over time in response to economic shocks. The smaller the inside ownership, the more severe underproduction is, resulting in an “outside equity Laffer curve”.

Keywords: payout policy, asymmetric information, under-investment, finance and growth

JEL Classification: G32, G35, M41, M42, O43, D82, D92

Suggested Citation:

Acharya, Viral V. and Acharya, Viral V. and Lambrecht, Bart, A Theory of Income Smoothing When Insiders Know More than Outsiders (March 10, 2015). Forthcoming, Review of Financial Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1959826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1959826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The internal governance of firms
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Amihud , J Y Kamin , J Ronen
Managerialism and ownerism in risk-return preferences
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 7 , p. 189 - 196 Posted: 1983
J W Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Forthcoming. Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? Review of Financial Studies
W R Baber , P M Fairfield , J A Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
852
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,892
RANK
32,682
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Internal Governance of Firms

By Viral V. Acharya, Stewart C. Myers, ...

The Internal Governance of Firms

By Viral V. Acharya, Stewart C. Myers, ...

The Internal Governance of Firms

By Viral V. Acharya, Stewart C. Myers, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies