Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Information Sharing in Competing Supply Chains

Posted: 28 Nov 2011

Liang Guo

City University of Hong Kong

Tian Li

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)

Hongtao Zhang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information & Systems Management

Date Written: November 15, 2011

Abstract

This study investigates strategic information sharing in supply chains where a retailer can ex post decide whether to share private demand information with an upstream manufacturer after the content of information becomes known. We highlight the equilibrium interaction between the retailer’s incentive to induce lower wholesale prices through strategic information sharing and the manufacturer’s rational inference about the retailer’s optimal disclosure strategy. We find that the retailer should share more information when his capability to acquire information improves. However, the retailer may not always want to pursue perfect information capability even when doing so does not incur any direct cost. In addition, we find that retailers should disclose less information when the market becomes more competitive. We also examine the role of inter-chain externality in the firms’ profitability and the retailers’ efforts to improve information capability. In particular, we show that firms can benefit from the rival retailer’s efforts to improve information capability, and a retailer’s incentive for information capability improvement can increase with the intensity of competition or with the rival retailer’s information capability.

Keywords: competition, disclosure, supply chain, strategic information sharing, channel

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Liang and Li, Tian and Zhang, Hongtao, Strategic Information Sharing in Competing Supply Chains (November 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1965422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1965422
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Asymmetric & Private Information eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies