Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Information Asymmetry

Accounting Review, Vol. 81, No. 3, 2006

48 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2011

Madhav V. Rajan

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Richard E. Saouma

Eli Broad College of Business, Michigan State University

Date Written: February 5, 2005

Abstract

At the heart of decentralization lies the notion that tasks are delegated by owners to managers who possess superior local information. The extent of this information asymmetry is often an endogenous construct, as it is influenced by the owner’s choice of internal accounting systems and the manager’s investment in acquiring local expertise. In this paper, we explore how varying levels of pre-contract, asymmetric information affect the owner-manager relationship. We provide three main sets of insights. First, we find that the owner’s payoffs are initially decreasing, and strictly convex everywhere, in the quality of the manager’s private information. The owner thus prefers to deal with either a perfectly informed or a perfectly uninformed manager, and we characterize conditions for either to be the preferred choice. Second, in contrast to recent work, we demonstrate that when information can be communicated internally, the optimal strength of managerial incentives unambiguously decreases as the manager becomes better informed. Third, we derive the surprising result that a self-interested manager does not always prefer to maximize his informational advantage. Our work has implications for the optimal design of organizations, and for internal accounting and control systems in particular.

Keywords: optimal adverse selection, information asymmetry, contract theory

JEL Classification: D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Rajan, Madhav V. and Saouma, Richard E., Optimal Information Asymmetry (February 5, 2005). Accounting Review, Vol. 81, No. 3, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1966852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Rick Antle , John Fellingham
Information rents and preferences among information systems in a model of resource allocation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 41 - 58 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Stanley Baiman , John Evans , Iii
Pre-decision information and participative management control systems
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Stanley Baiman , Konduru Sivaramakrishnan
The value of private pre-decision information in a principal-agent context
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 747 - 766 Posted: 1991-10
P George , Bjorn Baker , Jorgensen
Volatility, noise, and incentives Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,831
RANK
336,212
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Providing Managerial Incentives: Cash Flows Versus Accrual Accounting

By Stefan J. Reichelstein

Accrual-Based Compensation, Depreciation and Investment Decisions

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Controlling Investment Decisions: Depreciation- and Capital Charges

By Sunil Dutta and Stefan J. Reichelstein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies