Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentive Compensation and the Choice of Inventory Buffer

Accounting Review, Vol. 85, No. 6, pp. 1839-1860, November 2010

52 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2011

Richard E. Saouma

Eli Broad College of Business, Michigan State University

Serguei Netessine

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Stanley Baiman

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: December 9, 2008

Abstract

[enter Abstract Body]Previous research in management accounting and economics has noted the potential for complementarities between the firm’s performance measurement system and its other organizational design choices. We add to this literature by studying how the informativeness and incentive properties of a performance metric can be influenced by one particular organizational design choice — the size of the firm’s inventory buffers. We model a manufacturing setting in which an agent manages a workstation that processes intermediate units. As intermediate units arrive, they are stored in an inventory buffer until the agent can process them. The buffer can hold a maximum number of intermediate units — its buffer size. The agent is compensated on the basis of his workstation’s throughput. We characterize the conditions under which reducing the inventory buffer enhances/degrades the informativeness of the performance metric and, hence, mitigates/exacerbates the agent’s incentive problem.

Suggested Citation:

Saouma, Richard E. and Netessine, Serguei and Baiman, Stanley, Incentive Compensation and the Choice of Inventory Buffer (December 9, 2008). Accounting Review, Vol. 85, No. 6, pp. 1839-1860, November 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1970340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Datar Alles , Lambert
Moral Hazard and Management Control in Just-in-Time Setting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 177 - 204 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Algebra Artin , N J Upper Saddle River
Posted: 1991
Radhakrishan Balachandran
Cost of Congestion, Operational Efficiency and Management Accounting
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 89 , p. 237 - 245 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Nagarajan Balakrishnan , Sivaramakrishnan
The Effect of Property Rights and Audit Information Quality on Team Incentives for Inventory Reduction
Management Science , volume 44 , p. 1193 - 1204 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,200
RANK
453,964
4 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Last Mile Vehicle Supply Chain in the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies

By Orla Stapleton, Alfonso Pedraza Martinez, ...

Using OR to Support Humanitarian Operations: Learning from the Haiti Earthquake

By Alfonso Pedraza Martinez, Orla Stapleton, ...

The Effect of Earmarked Funding on Fleet Management for Relief and Development

By Maria Besiou, Alfonso Pedraza Martinez, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies