Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Re-Evaluation of 'Terminal Value, Accounting Numbers, and Inflation' by Gunther Friedl and Bernhard Schwetzler

14 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2011

Daniel Kiechle

University of Hohenheim

Niklas Lampenius

University of Hohenheim - Faculty of Business, Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: December 11, 2011

Abstract

In recent issues of the Journal of Applied Corporate Finance Friedl and Schwetzler (2011) and Bradley and Jarrell (2008, 2011) voiced opposing views on the relation between the retention rate/plowback rate and the growth rate in the context of the constant growth valuation model when considering inflation. We find that the discussed models represent two different versions of the constant growth model with different underlying assumptions regarding the implied capital maintenance. Reviewing the models under a consistent set of assumptions we resolve the dispute and illustrate that both models result in identical growth rates and consequently in identical value estimates.

Keywords: Terminal Value, Constant Growth Model, Valuation, Inflation

Suggested Citation:

Kiechle, Daniel and Lampenius, Niklas, Re-Evaluation of 'Terminal Value, Accounting Numbers, and Inflation' by Gunther Friedl and Bernhard Schwetzler (December 11, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1971028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1971028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M H Bradley , G A Jarrell
Expected inflation and the constant-growth valuation model
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 66 - 78 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M H Bradley , G A Jarrell
Comment on "Terminal value, accounting numbers, and inflation" by Gunther Friedl and Bernhard Schwetzler
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 115 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J U De Villiers
Inflation, asset structure and the discrepancy between accounting and true return
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 493 - 506 Posted: 1989
Crossref
I Fisher
Appreciation and interest
Publications of the American Economic Association , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 98 Posted: 1896
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,301
RANK
258,355
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies