Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Costs and Benefits of Clawback Provisions in CEO Compensation

Review of Corporate Finance Studies, Forthcoming

78 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2012 Last revised: 15 Jan 2015

Mark A. Chen

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Daniel Greene

Clemson University

James E. Owers

Georgia State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 2014

Abstract

We analyze the costs and benefits of clawback provisions that enable firms to recover incentive compensation from top management if financials are restated. In a simple contracting model, we find that a clawback provision effectively lengthens the horizon of incentives and curbs misreporting. However, such a provision can add noise to the underlying performance measure, reducing managerial effort and firm value. Our empirical tests support the model’s predictions regarding which types of firms are likely to voluntarily use clawback provisions. We also document that clawback provisions are associated with higher reporting quality, greater CEO-pay-for-performance sensitivity, and higher CEO compensation.

Keywords: executive compensation, clawback, CEO incentives, recoupment, recapture, fraud

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Mark A. and Greene, Daniel and Owers, James Edwin, The Costs and Benefits of Clawback Provisions in CEO Compensation (November 2014). Review of Corporate Finance Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1980406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1980406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
N Addy , X Chu , T Yoder
Voluntary adoption of clawback provisions, corporate governance, and interlock effects
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 33 , p. 167 - 89 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Agawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
James S. Ang , Yingmei Cheng , Sarah Fulmer
Clawing Back Executive Compensation: Will Dodd-Frank Matter?
Pages: 63 Posted: 17 Mar 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,038
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,863
RANK
49,717
4 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Firm-Initiated Clawback Provisions on Earnings Quality and Auditor Behavior

By Lilian H. Chan, Kevin C. W. Chen, ...

Recovering Bonuses After Restated Financials: Adopting Clawback Provisions

By Noel D. Addy, Xiaoyan Chu, ...

Does Voluntary Adoption of a Clawback Provision Improve Financial Reporting Quality?

By Ed Dehaan, Frank D. Hodge, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies