Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Tax Loss Carryforwards

CAAA Annual Conference 2012

30 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2012

Sudipto Sarkar

McMaster University - Finance & Business Economics

Date Written: January 12, 2012

Abstract

Tax loss carry-forwards are a valuable asset because they reduce a company’s future tax payments. However, there is often a great deal of uncertainty regarding the probability and timings of these tax savings. We propose a contingent-claim model to value this asset. The value is determined primarily by the size of accumulated carry-forwards relative to earnings. We show that, for poorly-performing firms with large tax loss carry-forwards, (i) the realizable (or fair) value of the tax losses can be significantly smaller than the book value, and (ii) the tax losses can account for a significant fraction of the company’s equity value. The model is illustrated by calibrating it to a couple of companies with large carry-forwards. Finally, we show how the model can be used to compute the marginal tax rate of a company with carry-forwards.

Keywords: Tax loss carry-forwards, Net operating losses, Valuation, Contingent-claim model

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Sarkar, Sudipto, Valuation of Tax Loss Carryforwards (January 12, 2012). CAAA Annual Conference 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1984344 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1984344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
E Amir , M Kirschenheiter , K Willard
The Valuation of Deferred Taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M P Bauman , S Das
Stock Market Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets: Evidence from Internet Firms
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 31 , p. 1223 - 1260 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Bhagat , N Moyen , I Suh
Investment and Internal Funds of Distressed Firms
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 11 , p. 449 - 472 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A De Waegenaere , R C Sansing , J L Wielhouwer
Valuation of a Firm with a Tax Loss Carryover
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 25 , p. 65 - 82 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
673
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,736
RANK
88,978
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Patents and R&D as Real Options

By Eduardo S. Schwartz

R&D Investments with Competitive Interactions

By Kristian R. Miltersen and Eduardo S. Schwartz

R&D Investments with Competitive Interactions

By Kristian R. Miltersen and Eduardo S. Schwartz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies