Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms' Emissions and Self-Reporting under Competitive Audit Mechanisms

52 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2012 Last revised: 27 Aug 2014

Andreas Marcel Oestreich

Brock University - Department of Economics

Date Written: August 26, 2014

Abstract

Many environmental tax systems rely on self-reported emissions by firms. These emissions reports are verified through costly auditing efforts by regulatory agencies that are constrained in their auditing budgets. The typical finding in the literature is that the agencies allocate the available audit resources purely at random among otherwise identical firms (random audit mechanism). The game-theoretic analysis in this paper shows that the random audit mechanism is not optimal in terms of induced incentives for abating emissions. Instead, the analysis focusses on the incentives induced by endogenous competitive audit mechanisms (CAMs) on firms' emissions and self-reporting behavior. Under CAMs, higher reported emissions by a firm relative to other firms result in a lower audit intensity. This creates a reporting contest between the firms. CAMs have been shown to lead to more truthful reporting when emissions are exogenous to the firms. I endogenize the emissions decisions of the firms and compare the incentives on firms' emissions and self-reporting under two types of CAMs to the random audit mechanism. The two CAMs apply different degrees of competition in reporting. In line with the literature, I find that both CAMs lead to more truthful reporting. Interestingly and novel to the literature, I find that some competition in reporting induces fewer emissions compared with random auditing, while too much competition in reporting induces comparatively higher emissions caused by firms.

Keywords: Environmental regulation, information disclosure, regulatory compliance, tournament theory

JEL Classification: D62, H83, L51, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Oestreich, Andreas Marcel, Firms' Emissions and Self-Reporting under Competitive Audit Mechanisms (August 26, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1985757 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1985757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Only two terms remain in the FOC: References
Crossref
R Bayer , F Cowell
Tax compliance and …rms'strategic interdependence
Journal of Public Economics , volume 93 , p. 1131 - 1143 Posted: 2009
Crossref
G Colson , L Menapace
Multiple receptor ambient monitoring and …rm compliance with environmental taxes under budget and target driven regulatory missions
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management Posted: 2012
Crossref
Doing less with less: how shortfalls in budget, sta¢ ng and in-house expertise are hampering the e¤ectiveness of MOE and MNR
ECO Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Timo Goeschl , Andreas Marcel Oestreich , Alice Solda
Compliance and Truthfulness: Leveraging Peer Information with Competitive Audit Mechanisms
JPUBE-D-21-01486 · 62 Pages · Posted: 6 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,838
RANK
889,053
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Strategy in Contests - An Introduction

By Kai A. Konrad

Investment in the Absence of Property Rights: The Role of Incumbency Advantages

By Kai A. Konrad

Investment in the Absence of Property Rights: The Role of Incumbency Advantages

By Kai A. Konrad

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies