Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Payoff Schemes for Managers (Asymmetric Information Case)

28 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2012

An Chen

Ulm University - Institute of Insurance Science

Markus Pelger

Stanford University - Department of Management Science & Engineering

Date Written: January 16, 2012

Abstract

This paper analyzes which stock option scheme best aligns the interests of a firm’s manager and shareholders when both are risk-averse. We consider granting to the manager one of the following four options: European, Parisian, Asian and American options. This paper extends Chen and Pelger (2012) to the case of information asymmetry, i.e. when the shareholders are uncertain about the Sharpe ratio or risk aversion of the managers. We express the expected utility as a function of a local risk measure to select the option scheme which either leads to the highest welfare of the shareholder or to the most "robust" result (in the sense of least sensitive to information asymmetry and best protecting uninformed shareholders). Under information asymmetry, the American option scheme seems to exhibit the smallest utility loss, while the Asian option scheme performs best in a worst-case analysis.

Keywords: Different Executive Stock Options, Asian, American and Parisian Options, Welfare Analysis

JEL Classification: G12, G13, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chen, An and Pelger, Markus, Optimal Payoff Schemes for Managers (Asymmetric Information Case) (January 16, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1987690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1987690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
J C Bettis , J M Bizjak , M L Lemmon
Exercise behavior, valuation, and the incentive effects of employee stock options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 76 , p. 445 - 470 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Carpenter
Does Option Compensation Increase Managerial Risk Appetite?
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2311 - 2331 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Chen , M Pelger
Optimal Payoff Schemes for Managers: Comparing the Welfare Implications for Different Executive Stock Options (Symmetric Information Case) Posted: 2012
Crossref
P H Dybvig , M Loewenstein
Employee reload options: pricing, hedging, and optimal exercise
Review of Financial Studies , volume 16 , p. 145 - 171 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
RANK
605,468
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies