Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Stock Option Schemes for Managers

Forthcoming, Review of Managerial Science

34 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2012 Last revised: 16 Aug 2013

An Chen

Ulm University - Institute of Insurance Science

Markus Pelger

Stanford University - Department of Management Science & Engineering

Date Written: June 14, 2013

Abstract

This paper analyzes which stock option scheme best aligns the interests of a firm's manager and shareholders when both are risk-averse. We consider granting to the manager a basic fixed salary and one of the following four options: European, Parisian, Asian and American options. Choosing the strike of the options optimally, the shareholders can mostly implement a first best solution with all payoff schemes. The American option scheme best aligns the interests of the manager and the shareholders in the most common case in which the strike price equals the grant-date fair market value.

Keywords: Different Executive Stock Options, Asian, American and Parisian Options, Welfare Analysis

JEL Classification: G12, G13, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chen, An and Pelger, Markus, Optimal Stock Option Schemes for Managers (June 14, 2013). Forthcoming, Review of Managerial Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1987686 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1987686
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
J Anderluh , H Van Der Weide , ; Bubak , M Van Albada , G D Sloot , P M A Dongarra
Parisian Options -The Implied Barrier Concept
Computational Science -ICCS , p. 851 - 858 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G Barone-Adesi , R E Whaley
Efficient Analytic Approximation of American Option Values
The Journal of Finance , issue 2 Posted: 1987-06
Crossref
J C Bettis , J M Bizjak , M L Lemmon
Exercise behavior, valuation, and the incentive effects of employee stock options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 76 , p. 445 - 470 Posted: 2005
Crossref
K Borch
Equilibrium in a Reinsurance Market , volume 30 , p. 424 - 444 Posted: 1962
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,281
RANK
527,931
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies