Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosures, Corporate Control, and Investment

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Jan 2012

Praveen Kumar

University of Houston - Department of Finance

Nisan Langberg

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

Date Written: January 25, 2012

Abstract

We examine the valuation and capital allocation roles of voluntary disclosure when managers have private information regarding the firm's investment opportunities, but an efficient market for corporate control influences their investment decisions. For managers with long-term stakes in the firm, the equilibrium disclosure region is two-tailed: only extreme good news and extreme bad news is disclosed in equilibrium. Moreover, the market's stock price and investment responses to bad news disclosures are stronger than the responses to good news disclosures, which is consistent with the empirical evidence. We also find that myopic managers are more likely to withhold bad news in good economic times when markets can independently assess expected investment returns.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Corporate Investment, Corporate Control

JEL Classification: G14, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Praveen and Langberg, Nisan and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva, Voluntary Disclosures, Corporate Control, and Investment (January 25, 2012). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1992117
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,767
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies