Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting Models and System Simulation: A Dynamic Approach

27 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2012 Last revised: 6 Nov 2016

Dario Girardi

University of Verona - Department of Economics; University of Verona - Department of Economics

Bruno Giacomello

University of Verona - Department of Economics

Luca Gentili

University of Verona - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 10, 2011

Abstract

In this paper the main idea is to create a flexible Budgeting Model which works in a dynamic framework capable of providing information about the financial position, income, assets and liabilities of an enterprise. This new tool should be considered the starting point for a new class of models able to adapt to the new informative requirements that come from different economic subjects. In order to create a similar model one has to analyze the procedures of double entry bookkeeping and find a mathematical formalization of them. Then, using the typical relationships presented in the balance sheet, it will be possible to build an initial quantitative model which uses accounting data to represent the dynamics of the company and to create a simulation associated with those dynamics.

In succession we are showing how our accounting recordings formalization, based on the concept of difference equations, can be used to model the entire dynamic of the Budgeting Model and more in general the dynamic of a Balance Sheet. Afterwards a closed form solution will be proposed. This solution gives us information about the financial position, income, assets and liabilities of an enterprise after n-periods and it could be used both to simulate firm budget and for other financial purposes.

However, this research wants also to introduce a new series of quantitative instruments to integrate the set of information at the disposal of companies, obtained, to begin with, from its accounting records.

Keywords: Financial Statement, dynamic systems, difference equations, Budget Model

JEL Classification: M4, C61

Suggested Citation:

Girardi, Dario and Girardi, Dario and Giacomello, Bruno and Gentili, Luca, Budgeting Models and System Simulation: A Dynamic Approach (March 10, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1994453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1994453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Arya , J Fellingham , D Schroeder , R Young
Double Entry Bookkeeping and Error Correction Posted: 2004
C Bianchi
Introducing SD modelling into planning and control systems to manage SMEs' growth: a learning-oriented perspective , volume 18 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Benninga , Modelling
Posted: 2000
J E Butterworth
The accounting system as an Information Function
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,423
RANK
122,782
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies