Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Managers with Low Forecast Precision Select High Disclosure Intensity: An Equilibrium Analysis

49 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2012

Miles B. Gietzmann

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Adam J. Ostaszewski

London School of Economics

Date Written: January 23, 2012

Abstract

Shin (2006) has argued that in order to understand the equilibrium patterns of corporate disclosure, it is necessary for researchers to work within an asset pricing framework in which corporate disclosures are endogenously determined. Echoing this sentiment, Larcker and Rusticus (2010) have argued that earlier empirical results claiming to find a negative relationship between disclosure and cost of capital may suffer fatally from endogeneity issues which, once addressed by a formal structural model, may reverse the sign of the relationship. The purpose of this paper is to introduce a general equilibrium model following the Black-Scholes paradigm with endogeneous disclosure in which firms select uniquely determined optimal probabilities of early equity-value discovery in a noisy environment. As firms may differ also in the uncertainty (precision) with which management can forecast the future, managers strategically increase the intensity of their (voluntary) disclosures to provide partial compensation for this perceived differential risk. A positive relationship then results between disclosure and the cost of capital.

Keywords: disclosure, cost of capital

JEL Classification: D82

Suggested Citation:

Gietzmann, Miles B. and Ostaszewski, Adam J., Why Managers with Low Forecast Precision Select High Disclosure Intensity: An Equilibrium Analysis (January 23, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2009847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2009847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
D Aboody , R Kaznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 1000 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Y An
Log-concavity versus Log-convexity: a complete characterization
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 80 , p. 350 - 369 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A E Bernardo , O Ledoit
Gain, loss and asset pricing
J. Political Economy , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 172 Posted: 2000
Crossref
T C Bergstrom , M Bagnoli
Log-concave Probability and its Applications , volume 26 , p. 445 - 469 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,932
RANK
502,079
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies