Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and the Cost of Borrowing

41 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2012

Pascal Frantz

London School of Economics

Norvald Instefjord

no affiliation

Date Written: March 5, 2012

Abstract

This paper analyzes the theoretical link between governance (defined loosely as the degree of protection offered to outside shareholders), and the cost of borrowing. We find, consistent with empirical evidence, that improvements in governance reduce the likelihood of default. Also, we find that improvements in governance will monotonically increase or reduce the cost of debt, where the sign of the relationship depends on the firm's restructuring cost in default. This finding can also rationalize existing empirical evidence within an optimal contracting argument for the use of debt.

Keywords: benefit diversions, corporate governance, cost of borrowing, default

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Frantz, Pascal and Instefjord, Norvald, Corporate Governance and the Cost of Borrowing (March 5, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2016280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2016280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Adams , H Mehra
Board Structures and Banking Firm Performance, Working paper Posted: 2002
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Accounting Report Integrity, and the Cost of Debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Lucian A. Bebchuk
Asymmetric Information and the Choice of Corporate Governance Arrangements
Harvard Law and Economics Discussion Paper No. 398 Pages: 33 Posted: 4 Nov 2002 Last revised: 8 May 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L A Bebchuk , C Jolls
Managerial Value Diversion and Shareholder Wealth
Economics, & Organization , volume 15 , p. 487 - 502 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,623
RANK
205,502
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies