Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing Dynamic Agency Theory via Structural Estimation

Simon School Working Paper No. FR 12-06

AFA 2013 San Diego Meetings Paper

42 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2012

Boris Nikolov

University of Lausanne; Swiss Finance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Lukas Schmid

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: March 14, 2012

Abstract

We quantify agency conflicts induced by the separation of ownership and control in large public firms by means of structural estimation. We use a simulated method of moments estimator (SMM) to back out the structural parameters of a q-theoretic dynamic agency model of firms from observed financing and investment choices. In the model, an optimal contract resolves the agency conflict between investors and managers, which can be implemented using cash, debt and equity. Our estimates suggest that in order to rationalize observed firm financing and investment policies, the agency conflict between investors and managers needs to be substantial. We provide additional cross-sectional tests based on sample splits according to governance and firm characteristics.

Keywords: Dynamic agency, q-theory, dynamic contracting, managerial compensation, structural estimation, capital structure

Suggested Citation:

Nikolov, Boris and Schmid, Lukas, Testing Dynamic Agency Theory via Structural Estimation (March 14, 2012). Simon School Working Paper No. FR 12-06, AFA 2013 San Diego Meetings Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2022605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2022605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Bong-Soo Lee , Beth F Ingram
Simulation and Estimation of Time Series Models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 47 , p. 197 - 205 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Janice Eberly , Sergio Rebelo , Nicolas Vincent
Investment, Cash Flow and Value : A Neoclassical Benchmark, working paper Posted: 2008
Timothy Erickson , Toni M Whited
Measurement Error and the Relationship Between Investment and q
Journal of Political Economy , volume 108 , p. 1027 - 1057 Posted: 2000
Crossref
João F Gomes
Financing Investment , volume 90 , p. 1263 - 1285 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,542
RANK
38,550
7 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Markets and Firm Dynamics

By Thomas F. Cooley and Vincenzo Quadrini

Optimal Lending Contracts and Firm Dynamics

By Rui A. Albuquerque and Hugo A. Hopenhayn

On the Evolution of the Firm Size Distribution: Facts and Theory

By Luis M. B. Cabral and José Mata

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies