Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Disclosure Improve Efficiency?

40 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2012 Last revised: 12 Sep 2014

Bing Han

University of Toronto, Rotman School of Management

Yu-Jane Liu

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Finance and Banking

Ya Tang

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Lifeng Yu

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Date Written: August 4, 2014

Abstract

This paper investigates the efficiency consequences of firm disclosure. Using accounting and financial data in the Chinese market, the largest emerging market dominated by noise traders, we find that disclosure attracts noise trading and reduces the amount of information learned by firms from market prices, which in turn harms investment efficiency. Our results indicate that disclosure can negatively affect market efficiency and real investment performance in markets where noise trading increases with disclosure. Our results shed new lights on the dark side of disclosure for both informational and allocative efficiency.

Keywords: Noise Trading, Disclosure, Informational Efficiency, Allocative Efficiency, Informational Feedback Effect

JEL Classification: D61, G14, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Han, Bing and Liu, Yu-Jane and Tang, Ya and Yu, Lifeng, Does Disclosure Improve Efficiency? (August 4, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2022575 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2022575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Admati
A noisy rational expectations equilibrium for multi-asset securities markets
Econometrica , volume 953 , p. 629 - 658 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
A theory of intraday patterns: volume and price variability
Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1988
Crossref
P Agarwal
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,236
RANK
151,482
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Shocks: Evidence from Exogenous Changes in Analyst Coverage

By François Derrien and Ambrus Kecskes

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies