Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Income Smoothing When Insiders Know More than Outsiders

51 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2012

Viral V. Acharya

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business; New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Bart M. Lambrecht

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 13, 2012

Abstract

We consider a setting in which insiders have information about income that outside shareholders do not, but property rights ensure that outside shareholders can enforce a fair payout. To avoid intervention, insiders report income consistent with outsiders' expectations based on publicly available information rather than true income, resulting in an observed income and payout process that adjust partially and over time towards a target. Insiders underproduce in an attempt not to unduly raise outsiders' expectations about future income, a problem that is more severe the smaller is the inside ownership. This results in an "outside equity Laffer curve" in that the total outside equity value is an inverted U-shaped function of outsiders' ownership share. A disclosure environment with adequate quality of independent auditing mitigates this problem, implying that accounting quality can enhance investments, size of public stock markets and economic growth.

Keywords: payout policy, asymmetric information, under-investment, accounting quality, finance and growth

JEL Classification: G32, G35, M41, M42, O43, D82, D92

Suggested Citation:

Acharya, Viral V. and Acharya, Viral V. and Lambrecht, Bart, A Theory of Income Smoothing When Insiders Know More than Outsiders (March 13, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2023116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2023116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The Internal Governance of Firms
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
Crossref
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review, forthcoming Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Amihud , J Y Kamin , J Ronen
Managerialism and Ownerism in RiskReturn Preferences
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 189 - 196 Posted: 1983
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Oligopoly, Disclosure and Earnings Management
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1191 - 1214 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,258
RANK
32,682
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Within-Industry Timing of Earnings Warnings: Do Managers Herd?

By Senyo Y. Tse and Jennifer Tucker

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies