Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Disclosure and Fundamental Disagreement: Implications for Financial and Non-Financial Firms

60 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2012

Anjan V. Thakor

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School; Financial Theory Group; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 15, 2012

Abstract

This paper develops a theory of information disclosure with disagreement, and then examines its implications for financial and non-financial firms. I build a model in which managers of firms are voluntarily communicating objective and subjective information, and prior beliefs about the strategy to maximize project value are rational but heterogeneous, creating the possibility of fundamental disagreement. Four main sets of results are derived. First, not all firms disclose (subjective) information about strategy that can potentially increase disagreement with investors. This lack of disclosure occurs even though there are no exogenous communication costs, and 'proprietary signaling costs' are precluded because the model has no spillover effects related to the firm’s product-market competitors. Second, more valuable firms voluntarily disclose less information in equilibrium. Third, information disclosure has real consequences because it interacts with project values, investor relations and corporate governance. Thus, this paper provides an economic rationale for higher-quality firms to withhold more strategic information, and this has pervasive consequences. Fourth, banks, facing greater withdrawal risk than non-financial firms, optimally disclose less strategic information than non-financial firms. Regulations that compel banks to increase information disclosure have the unintended consequence of making banks more fragile. Hence, the analysis exposes a potential tension between information transparency and greater fragility in banking. Improvements in corporate governance will lead banks to voluntarily disclose less strategic information, become less fragile, keep less on-balance-sheet liquidity, and make longer-maturing loans.

Keywords: disagreement, information disclosure, transparency and fragility in banking

JEL Classification: G21, G30

Suggested Citation:

Thakor, Anjan V., Information Disclosure and Fundamental Disagreement: Implications for Financial and Non-Financial Firms (March 15, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2024177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2024177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Acharya , Hamid Viral , Anjan V Mehran , Thakor
Caught Between Scylla and Charybdis?: Regulating Bank Leverage When There is Rent-Seeking and Risk-Shifting Posted: 2011-10
Crossref
Anat Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The Limitations of Industry Concentration Measures Constructed with Compustat Data: Implications for Finance Research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3839 - 3872 Posted: 2009
Crossref
James Andreoni , Tymofiy Mylovanov
Diverging Opinions
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 209 - 232 Posted: 2012-02
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,779
RANK
148,652
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Shocks: Evidence from Exogenous Changes in Analyst Coverage

By François Derrien and Ambrus Kecskes

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies