Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservatism and Aggregation: The Effect on Cost of Equity Capital and the Efficiency of Debt Contracts

51 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2012 Last revised: 3 May 2012

Anne Beyer

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Date Written: March 23, 2012

Abstract

This paper studies the joint effect of conservatism and aggregation on the cost of equity capital and the efficiency of debt contracts. In the model, a firm's two assets are valued at either the lower-of-cost-or-market or fair value and the accounting report aggregates the value of the two assets. While the process of aggregation leads inevitably to a loss of information, what information is lost depends on the accounting regime. In the conservative regime, gains are ignored while in the fair value regime gains are off-set against losses.

The paper studies the joint effect of conservatism and aggregation in two settings. First, it considers an all-equity firm and compares the valuation of equity when investors observe an accounting report under either the conservative or a fair-value regime. The model predicts that cost of equity capital is lower in the conservative regime than in the fair value regime if the firm's production function exhibits sufficiently decreasing marginal returns. Second, the paper takes a contractual perspective and considers the efficiency of debt contracts when debt covenants must be written in terms of the accounting report. The paper shows the maximum capital that can be raised by a debt contract which implements efficient post-contractual decisions is higher in the conservative than in the fair value regime.

Keywords: Financial reporting, Cost of capital, Debt contracts, Conservatism

JEL Classification: M41, N20, D80

Suggested Citation:

Beyer, Anne, Conservatism and Aggregation: The Effect on Cost of Equity Capital and the Efficiency of Debt Contracts (March 23, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2028159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2028159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
− p) (2µ x − ∆ − 2c) + p (1 − p) (L + µ x + ∆ − c) > p (1 − p) (2L) + p (1 − p) (2µ x + ∆ − 2c) p (1 − p) (L − (µ x − c)) − p (1 − p) ∆ > 2p (1 − p) (L −
Crossref
Bolton Aghion
An incomplete contracting approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
21 Citations
Elwira Gross-Golack , Anna Brzozowska , Robert Balcerzyk , Ibrahiem M. M. El Emary
Barriers to Sustainable Management of Organizational Intellectual Capital
Marketing and Management of Innovations , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 252 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Jeremy Bertomeu , Iván Marinovic
A Theory of Hard and Soft Information
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Xu Jiang
Accounting Conservatism and Debt Contract Efficiency: The Role of Non-Accounting Information
50 Pages · Posted: 19 Jun 2010 · Last revised: 4 Jun 2017 · Downloads: 630
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Juan Manuel García Lara , Beatriz Garcia Osma , Fernando Penalva
Conditional Conservatism and the Limits to Earnings Management
66 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2012 · Last revised: 8 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 2,364
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,148
RANK
134,500
21 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies