Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Rationing and Managerial Retention: The Role of External Capital

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Apr 2012 Last revised: 8 Apr 2012

Ying-Ju Chen

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information Systems, Business Statistics and Operations Management

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Date Written: April 5, 2012

Abstract

In modern businesses, firms face new challenges of managerial retention in capital budgeting process. We consider a model in which a manager privately observes the capital productivity of a project and has access to multiple outside financing options. We show that if the manager can obtain funding from either internal or external capital (but not both), the firm may exclude highly profitable investment projects but fund those projects that have moderate capital productivity, even when there is no limit on capital allocation. Furthermore, the firm may voluntarily impose capital rationing in order to keep the projects within the firm, even though it has sufficient capital to fund such profitable projects. However, if the firm can utilize both the internal and external capital, highly profitable projects are always retained and the voluntary capital rationing is not optimal. Our analysis identifies testable empirical predictions on the association between capital budgeting and external capital.

Keywords: capital rationing, external capital, agency theory, internal control

JEL Classification: G11, G31, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ying-Ju and Deng, Mingcherng, Capital Rationing and Managerial Retention: The Role of External Capital (April 5, 2012). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2035076
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,506
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies