Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reputation Management and the Disclosure of Earnings Forecasts

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2012

Anne Beyer

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Ronald A. Dye

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: December 16, 2011

Abstract

In this paper, managers differ from each other in terms of the probability that they are "forthcoming" (and disclose all the earnings forecasts they receive) or "strategic" (and disclose the earnings forecasts they receive only when it is in their self-interest to do so). Strategic managers choose whether to disclose their forecasts based on both the disclosure's effects on their firms' stock price and on their reputation among investors for being forthcoming.

Our findings include strategic managers can build a reputation for being forthcoming by disclosing unfavorable forecasts; managers' incentive to build a reputation for being forthcoming may be so strong that they disclose even the most negative forecasts; as managers become more concerned about their reputation: (a) the current price of the firm in the event the manager makes no forecast increases; (b) managers who have a high probability of behaving strategically (as forthcoming) in the future issue forecasts more (less) often in the present.

Keywords: Reputation, Forecasts, Voluntary Disclosure, Valuation

JEL Classification: D82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Beyer, Anne and Dye, Ronald A., Reputation Management and the Disclosure of Earnings Forecasts (December 16, 2011). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2039749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R J Barro
Reputation in a model of monetary policy with incomplete information
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 1986
Crossref
R Benabou , G Laroque
Using privileged information to manipulate markets: Insiders, gurus, and credibility
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 107 , p. 921 - 958 Posted: 1992
Crossref
D Diamond
Reputation in debt markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 97 , p. 828 - 862 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R Dye
Disclosure of nonproprietary information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , p. 123 - 145 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
535
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,182
RANK
119,423
26 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies