Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of 'Prominent' Disclosure

37 Pages Posted: 18 May 2012

Mark Penno

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Jack Douglas Stecher

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: May 11, 2012

Abstract

'Prominence' plays an important role in financial reporting – an entity might assign an item to the footnotes, report it below the line, or comment on it in a press release versus the MD&A. We propose a model where quantitative disclosures are classified as more or less prominent, based on technically vague information. In our model, an entity must give sufficiently informative quantitative disclosures high prominence, sufficiently uninformative quantitative disclosures low prominence, while for a range of disclosures discretion is permitted. We show that a market of rational actors will react more strongly to negative (than positive) univariate quantitative disclosures when conditioned on either classification (low or high prominence). This effect strengthens as vagueness increases. We then examine how the reporting and bundling of multivariate items might occur in response to vagueness. We find that for unambiguously good or bad quantitative news, bundling increases with vagueness, and the market puts more weight on bad quantitative news disclosures than good quantitative news disclosures when conditioned on disclosure type. However, when multivariate quantitative news is mixed (good and bad items occur together), the probability of bundling is independent of vagueness, the market reaction to a bundle's classification is muted, and the market's reaction to unbundled items is amplified.

Keywords: Prominence, first-order vagueness, soft information, bundling, asymmetric market response, non-partitional information structures

JEL Classification: M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Penno, Mark C. and Stecher, Jack Douglas, A Theory of 'Prominent' Disclosure (May 11, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2062406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2062406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,284
RANK
318,538
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies