Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Optimal Step-Up and Imperfect Loss Offset

BuR Business Research Journal, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 8-23, May 2012

16 Pages Posted: 22 May 2012

Markus Diller

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 18, 2012

Abstract

In the field of mergers and acquisitions, German and international tax law allow for several opportunities to step up a firm's assets, i.e., to reevaluate the assets at fair market values. When a step-up is performed the taxpayer recognizes a taxable gain, but also obtains tax benefits in the form of higher future depreciation allowances associated with stepping up the tax base of the assets. This tax-planning problem is well known in taxation literature and can also be applied to firm valuation in the presence of taxation. However, the known models usually assume a perfect loss offset. If this assumption is abandoned, the depreciation allowances may lose value as they become tax effective at a later point in time, or even never if there are not enough cash flows to be offset against. This aspect is especially relevant if future cash flows are assumed to be uncertain. This paper shows that a step-up may be disadvantageous or a firm overvalued if these aspects are not integrated into the basic calculus. Compared to the standard approach, assets should be stepped up only in a few cases and - under specific conditions - at a later point in time. Firm values may be considerably lower under imperfect loss offset.

Keywords: CAPM, business taxation, hidden reserves, step-up

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Diller, Markus, Tax-Optimal Step-Up and Imperfect Loss Offset (May 18, 2012). BuR Business Research Journal, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 8-23, May 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2064635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Gernot Brähler , Max Göttsche , Bernhard Rauch
Verlustnutzung von Kapitalgesellschaften bei Umwandlungen -Eine ökonomis-che Vorteilhaftigkeitsanalyse
Zeitschrift für Betriebswirtschaft , volume 79 , issue 10 , p. 1175 - 1191 Posted: 2009
Crossref
François Chapeau-Blondeau , Abdelilah Monir
Numerical Evaluation of the Lambert W Function and Application to Generation of Generalized Gaussian Noise With Exponent 1/2
IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing , volume 50 , issue 9 , p. 2160 - 2165 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Robert M Corless , H Gaston , D E G Gonnet , David J Hare , Donald E Jeffrey , Knuth
On the Lambert W Function , volume 5 , p. 329 - 359 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Harry Deangelo , Ronald W Masulis
Optimal Capital Structure Under Corporate and Personal Taxation
Jounal of Financial Economics , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 29 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,352
RANK
833,930
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies