Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards, Earnings Management, and Earnings Quality

60 Pages Posted: 28 May 2012 Last revised: 30 Apr 2013

Ralf Ewert

University of Graz - Institute of Accounting and Auditing

Alfred Wagenhofer

University of Graz

Date Written: April 30, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines how the characteristics of accounting systems and management incentives interact and collectively determine financial reporting quality. We develop a rational expectations equilibrium model that features a steady-state firm with investments, financial and non-financial information, and earnings management opportunities. We measure earnings quality by the information content of earnings in equilibrium. The analysis confirms some intuitive results, such as that earnings quality increases in accounting precision. However, we also find counter-intuitive results, such as that an accounting standard that makes unbiased accounting earnings more informative can reduce earnings quality. These results are mainly driven by an interaction between managers’ smoothing incentives and smoothing provided by the accounting standard. Finally, we study value relevance measures and show that they trace the changes in earnings quality accurately for the variation of some and not of other characteristics of the accounting system.

Keywords: earnings quality, earnings management, accounting standards, value relevance, earnings response coefficient

JEL Classification: D80, G12, G14, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Ewert, Ralf and Wagenhofer, Alfred, Accounting Standards, Earnings Management, and Earnings Quality (April 30, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2068134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2068134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
P O Christensen , G A Feltham , F Şabac
A Contracting Perspective on Earnings Quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 265 - 294 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P O Christensen , H Frimor , F Şabac
Earnings Quality and Earnings Management Posted: 2009
K Cho , D M Kreps
Signaling Games and Stable Equilibria
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 102 , p. 179 - 221 Posted: 1987
Crossref
De Jong , A , G Mertens , M Van Der Poel , R Van Dijk
How Does Earnings Management Influence Investors' Perceptions of Firm Value? Survey Evidence from Financial Analysts Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,823
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,586
RANK
21,511
13 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies