Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Procurement in Supply Chains When the End-Product Exhibits the 'Weakest Link' Property

46 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2012

Stanley Baiman

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Serguei Netessine

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Howard Kunreuther

National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); University of Pennsylvania - Wharton Risk Management and Decision Processes Center

Date Written: February 1, 2004

Abstract

We consider a supply chain with one manufacturer who assembles an end-product using multiple outsourced parts. The end-product exhibits the “weakest-link” property, such that if any of its component parts fails, the end-product fails. The supplier of each component part can improve the (uncertain) quality of her parts by exerting costly effort that is unobservable to the manufacturer and is non-contractible. We analyze three possible contractual agreements between the manufacturer and suppliers: Acceptable Quality Level (AQL), Quality–Based Incentive Pricing (Q–Pricing) and Group Warranty. Under AQL, the manufacturer inspects all incoming parts, but establishes different quality thresholds and pays the suppliers different amounts for achieving the different thresholds. Under Q-Pricing, the manufacturer also inspects all incoming parts but pays each supplier a constant amount for each good part. Under Group Warranty there is no testing of the individual parts; instead all suppliers are responsible for any failed end-product. We compare the efficiency of these three contractual arrangements as a function of the exogenous variables.

Suggested Citation:

Baiman, Stanley and Netessine, Serguei and Kunreuther, Howard C. and Kunreuther, Howard C., Procurement in Supply Chains When the End-Product Exhibits the 'Weakest Link' Property (February 1, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2077640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2077640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
S Baiman , P Fischer , M V Rajan
Information, contracting, and quality costs
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 6 , p. 776 - 789 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Baiman , P Fischer , M V Rajan
Performance measurement and design in supply chains
Management Science , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 173 - 188 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Stanley Baiman , Serguei Netessine
An Incentive Effect of Multiple Sourcing
Pages: 30 Posted: 5 Jun 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
16 Citations
Alexander E. Saak
Traceability and reputation in supply chains
International Journal of Production Economics , volume 177 , p. 149 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Xiaoning Jin , S. Jack Hu , Jun Ni , Guoxian Xiao
Assembly Strategies for Remanufacturing Systems With Variable Quality Returns
IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 76 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Mohammad E. Nikoofal , Mehmet Gümüş
Quality at the Source or at the End? Managing Supplier Quality Under Information Asymmetry
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 498 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Hakan Tarakci , Subramaniam Ponnaiyan , Shailesh Kulkarni
Maintenance-outsourcing contracts for a system with backup machines
International Journal of Production Research , volume 52 , issue 11 , p. 3259 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,085
RANK
302,262
16 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Coordination and Incentive Contracts in Project Management Under Asymmetric Information

By Murat Bayiz and Charles J. Corbett

Co-opetition and Investment for Supply-Chain Resilience

By Nitin Bakshi and Paul R. Kleindorfer

An Incentive Effect of Multiple Sourcing

By Stanley Baiman and Serguei Netessine

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies