Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Disclosure and Exchange Media

Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Research Paper No. 2012-012A

31 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2012

David Andolfatto

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Department of Economics; Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis

Fernando M. Martin

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis

Date Written: April 1, 2012

Abstract

When commitment is lacking, intertemporal trade is facilitated with the use of exchange media — interpreted broadly to include monetary and collateral assets. We study the properties of a model commonly used to motivate monetary exchange, extended to include a physical asset whose expected short-run return is subject to a news shock, but whose expected long-run return is stable. The nondisclosure of news enhances the asset’s property as an exchange medium, and generally improves social welfare. When a nondisclosure policy is infeasible, the framework admits a role for government debt, including fiat money. When lump-sum taxation is not permitted, fiat money may still improve welfare — but only if its circulation is supported by a cash-in-advance constraint.

Keywords: Money, Collateral, News, Nondisclosure

Suggested Citation:

Andolfatto, David and Martin, Fernando M., Information Disclosure and Exchange Media (April 1, 2012). Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Research Paper No. 2012-012A, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2079761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2079761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
David Andolfatto
Essential Interest-Bearing Money
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 145 , p. 1495 - 1507 Posted: 2010
Crossref
David Andolfatto , Fernando M Martin
Money and Capital as Competing Media of Exchange in a News Economy Posted: 2009
Crossref
Ricardo J Caballero
On the Macroeconomics of Asset Shortages
NBER Working Papers 12753 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Alessandro Citanna , Antonio Villanacci
Incomplete Markets, Allocative Efficiency, and the Information Revealed by Prices
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 90 , p. 222 - 253 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,098
RANK
864,457
7 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Inflation, Output, and Welfare

By Ricardo Lagos and Guillaume Rocheteau

Inflation, Output, and Welfare

By Ricardo Lagos and Guillaume Rocheteau

Essential Interest-Bearing Money

By David Andolfatto

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies