Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Governance Roles of Information Quality and Corporate Takeovers

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2012 Last revised: 17 Jun 2018

Jing Li

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Ran Zhao

Peking University

Date Written: November 12, 2014

Abstract

We examine the corporate governance roles of information quality and the takeover market with asymmetric information regarding the value of the target firm. Increasing information quality improves the takeover efficiency, however, a highly efficient takeover market also discourages the manager from exerting effort. We find that perfect information quality is not optimal for either the current shareholders' expected payoff maximization or the expected firm value maximization. Furthermore, the current shareholders prefer a lower level of information quality than the level that maximizes the expected firm value, because of a misalignment between the current shareholders' welfare and the total firm value. We also analyze the impact of anti-takeover laws, and we find that the passage of anti-takeover laws may induce the current shareholders to choose a higher level of information quality and thus increase the expected firm value.

Keywords: Corporate takeovers, Information quality, Antitakeover law, Takeover efficiency

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jing and Nan, Lin and Zhao, Ran, The Corporate Governance Roles of Information Quality and Corporate Takeovers (November 12, 2014). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2091619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2091619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
K R Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2012
Crossref
N Aktas , E D Bodt , R Roll
Negotiations under the threat of an auction
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , p. 241 - 255 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B W Ambrose , W L Megginson
The role of asset structure, ownership structure, and takeover defenses in determining acquisition likelihood
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 27 , p. 575 - 589 Posted: 1992
Crossref
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate governance and the information environment: evidence from state antitakeover laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
496
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,156
RANK
130,913
7 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies