Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simple Banking: Profitability and the Yield Curve

Bank of England Working Paper No. 452

55 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2012

Piergiorgio Alessandri

Bank of England

Benjamin Nelson

Bank of England

Date Written: June 21, 2012

Abstract

How does bank profitability vary with interest rates? We present a model of a monopolistically competitive bank subject to repricing frictions, and test the model’s predictions using a unique panel data set on UK banks. We find evidence that large banks retain a residual exposure to interest rates, even after accounting for hedging activity operating through the trading book. In the long run, both level and slope of the yield curve contribute positively to profitability. In the short run, however, increases in market rates compress interest margins, consistent with the presence of non negligible loan pricing frictions.

JEL Classification: E4, G21

Suggested Citation:

Alessandri, Piergiorgio and Nelson, Benjamin, Simple Banking: Profitability and the Yield Curve (June 21, 2012). Bank of England Working Paper No. 452, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2093394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2093394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
***
Crossref
Sample is major UK banks (MUK). ; ; denote signiicance at 1%, 5%, and 10% respectively Posted: 2012-06
Adrian , H Shin
Money, liquidity and monetary policy
American Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 600 - 605 Posted: 2009
Crossref
David Aikman , Piergiorgio Alessandri , Bruno Eklund , Prasanna Gai , Sujit Kapadia , Sujit Kapadia , Elizabeth Martin , Nada Mora , Gabriel Sterne , Matthew Willison
Funding Liquidity Risk in a Quantitative Model of Systemic Stability
Bank of England Working Paper No. 372 Pages: 39 Posted: 17 Jun 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
7 Citations
Sylwester Kozak
Wpływ niskich stóp procentowych na dochody sektora bankowego w latach 2008-2014
Zarządzanie Finansami i Rachunkowość , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 5 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Michael Joyce , Marco Spaltro
Quantitative Easing and Bank Lending: A Panel Data Approach
Bank of England Working Paper No. 504 · 33 Pages · Posted: 28 Aug 2014 · Downloads: 868
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Samuel Knott , Peter Richardson , Katie Rismanchi , Kallol Sen
Understanding the Fair Value of Banks’ Loans
Bank of England Financial Stability Paper No. 31 · 18 Pages · Posted: 7 Jan 2015 · Downloads: 523
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ramona Busch , Christoph Memmel
Quantifying the components of the banks’ net interest margin
Financial Markets and Portfolio Management , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 371 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,637
RANK
253,593
7 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Regulation, Risk-Taking and Monetary Policy: A Missing Link in the Transmission Mechanism?

By Claudio E. V. Borio and Haibin Zhu

Hazardous Times for Monetary Policy: What Do Twenty-Three Million Bank Loans Say about the Effects of Monetary Policy on Credit Risk?

By Gabriel Jiménez, Steven Ongena, ...

Hazardous Times for Monetary Policy: What Do Twenty-Three Million Bank Loans Say about the Effects of Monetary Policy on Credit Risk-Taking?

By Gabriel Jiménez, Steven Ongena, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies