Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multi-Stage Capital Budgeting with Delayed Consumption of Slack

Management Science, 2012

30 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2012

Stanley Baiman

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Richard E. Saouma

Eli Broad College of Business, Michigan State University

Date Written: July 2, 2012

Abstract

Capital budgeting frequently involves multiple stages at which firms can continue or abandon ongoing projects. In this paper, we study a project requiring two stages of investment. Failure to fund Stage 1 of the investment precludes investment in Stage 2, whereas failure to fund Stage 2 results in early termination. In contrast to the existing literature, we assume that the firm can limit the manager’s informational rents with the early termination of the project. In this setting, we find that the firm optimally commits to a capital allocation scheme whereby it forgoes positive NPV projects at Stage 1 (capital rationing), while at Stage 2, depending on the manager’s previous report, it sometimes implements projects with a negative continuation NPV but in other situations forgoes implementing projects with positive continuation NPVs.

Keywords: Resource Allocation, Capital Budgeting, Rationing, Adverse Section, Dynamic Rents

Suggested Citation:

Baiman, Stanley and Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Saouma, Richard E., Multi-Stage Capital Budgeting with Delayed Consumption of Slack (July 2, 2012). Management Science, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2097939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
R ; P Antle , A Bogetoft , Stark
Incentive problems and investment timing options
Essays in Ac-­-counting Theory in Honour of Joel S. Demski Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Antle , J Fellingham
Resource rationing and organizational slack in a two-­-period model
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1990
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover
Abandonment options and information system design
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 45 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,170
RANK
352,349
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

On Optimal Contracting with Subjective Evaluation

By W. Bentley Macleod

Firms' Choice of Method of Pay

By Charles Brown

Job Characteristics and the Form of Compensation

By W. Bentley Macleod and Daniel Parent

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies