Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Pseudo-Bayesian Model for Investors' Behaviors in Financial Crises

39 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2012

Wing-Keung Wong

Asia University, Department of Finance

Kin Lam

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Wing-Keung Wong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lixing Zhu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 3, 2012

Abstract

In this paper, we introduce a new pseudo-Bayesian model to incorporate the impact of a financial Crisis and establish some properties of stock returns and investors' behaviors during the financial crisis and during recovery after crisis. Our proposed model can be applied to investigate some important market anomalies including short-term underreaction, long-term overreaction, and excess volatility during financial crisis. We also explain in some detail the linkage between these market anomalies and investors' behavioral biases during financial crisis and during recovery after crisis.

Keywords: Bayesian model, Representative and conservative heuristics, Underreaction, Overreaction, Stock price, Stock return, financial crisis

JEL Classification: G11, C13

Suggested Citation:

Wong, Wing-Keung and Lam, Kin and Wong, Wing-Keung and Zhu, Lixing, A New Pseudo-Bayesian Model for Investors' Behaviors in Financial Crises (July 3, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2098082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2098082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Ma ; Wong , Bai , Wong Hui , Zitikis
VaR rule
or other advanced econometric techniques Posted: 1990
Li Bai , Liu , Wong
Another extension to improve investment decision-making is to study behaviors of different types of investors (Wong and Li
to study investors' conservative and representative heuristics. For example, Fong, Wong, and Lean Posted: 1999
J S Abarbanell , V Bernard
Analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Z D Bai , Y C Hui , W K Wong , R Zitikis
Evaluating Prospect Performance: Making a Case for a Non-Asymptotic UMPU Test
Journal of Financial Econometrics Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,847
RANK
492,934
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Prospect and Markowitz Stochastic Dominance

By Wing-keung Wong and Raymond Honfu Chan

Does Risk Seeking Drive Asset Prices? A Stochastic Dominance Analysis of Aggregate Investor Preferences

By Thierry Post and Haim Levy

Preferences Over Meyer's Location-Scale Family

By Wing-keung Wong and Chenghu Ma

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies