Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between CEO Compensation and Past Performance

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2012

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Rong Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Jose M. Plehn-Dujowich

Powerlytics. Inc.

Date Written: July 18, 2012

Abstract

This study focuses on the relation between current compensation and past performance measures as signals of a CEO’s ability. We develop a simple two-period principal-agent model with moral hazard and adverse selection and test theoretical predictions using CEO compensation data from 1993-2006. Consistent with the predictions, we find that salary (bonus) is positively (negatively) associated with past performance for both continuing and newly-hired CEOs. We also find that while current salary is positively associated with future performance, current bonus is not. As the model suggests, salary is adjusted to meet the reservation utility and information rent, and is positively correlated over time to reflect ability. Bonus serves to address moral hazard and adverse selection by separating high-ability agents into riskier contracts. Our results indicate that it is important to disaggregate cash compensation into salary and bonus components to understand the dynamic interaction between incentives and performance.

Keywords: executive compensation, past performance, salary, bonus, adverse selection, moral hazard

JEL Classification: J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Darrough, Masako N. and Huang, Rong and Plehn-Dujowich, Jose M., The Relation between CEO Compensation and Past Performance (July 18, 2012). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2111847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The other side of the tradeoff: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Antle , A Smith
An empirical investigation of the relative performance evaluation of corporate executives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Offering stock options to gauge managerial talent
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 189 - 210 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Bagnoli , T Bergstrom
Log-concave probability and its applications
Economic Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 445 - 69 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,051
RANK
34,038
6 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies