Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Taxation of Profits and Losses and its Influence on Investment Timing: Paradoxical Effects of Tax Increases

39 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2012 Last revised: 19 Jul 2012

Annika Mehrmann

Paderborn University

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: July 17, 2012

Abstract

Applying a time-discrete investment model and a setting with an entry and an exit option and cash flow uncertainty we present a dynamic analysis of the impact of various loss offset regimes on risky investment timing decisions. We find that a tax system with loss offset restrictions will not distort timing decisions if the investor can exit the project. By contrast, in a setting without exit flexibility a tax discrimination against losses can cause paradoxical effects. In that respect, we analytically identify conditions for higher taxes to increase investors’ propensity to choose early investment and hence accelerate entrepreneurial investment.

Suggested Citation:

Mehrmann, Annika and Schneider, Georg Thomas and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Asymmetric Taxation of Profits and Losses and its Influence on Investment Timing: Paradoxical Effects of Tax Increases (July 17, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2111475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2111475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
E Agliardi
Taxation and Investment Decisions: A Real Options Approach
Australian Economic Papers , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 55 Posted: 2001-03
Crossref
E Agliardi , R Agliardi
Progressive Taxation and Corporate Liquidation Policy
Economic Modelling , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 532 - 541 Posted: 2008-05
Crossref
E Agliardi , R Agliardi
Progressive Taxation and Corporate Liquidation: Analysis and Policy Implications
January/February) , volume 31 , p. 144 - 154 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M G Allingham
Risk-Taking and Taxation
Journal of Economics , volume 32 , p. 203 - 224 Posted: 1972-06
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,146
RANK
422,747
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Limited Liability, Asymmetric Taxation, and Risk Taking - Why Partial Tax Neutralities Can Be Harmful

By Ralf Ewert and Rainer Niemann

Law, Organizational Form and Taxes: A Stakeholder Perspective

By Kose John, Vinay B. Nair, ...

Asymmetric Taxation and Performance-Based Incentive Contracts

By Rainer Niemann

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies