Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Payout Policy Relevance and Accounting Based Valuation

55 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2012

Colin Clubb

University of London - King's College London - Department of Management

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: May 17, 2012

Abstract

DeAngelo and DeAngelo (2006) (D&D hereafter) argue that ‘payout policy is not irrelevant and investment is not the sole determinant of value, even in frictionless markets.’ We first re-examine their critique using M&M’s (1961) multiperiod valuation framework and identify non-essential operating cash expenses as an important mechanism for managerial free cash flow (FCF) retention, thus confirming D&D’s argument that payout policy is relevant and demonstrating the role of both earnings measurement and investment policy in an effective payout policy. Second, we develop a general analysis of the valuation and informational roles of FCF payout in a perfect capital market and apply this framework to the well-known accounting valuation models of Ohlson (1995) and Feltham and Ohlson (1996), showing how these models permit payout valuation relevance due to managerial FCF retention but not payout informational relevance. Finally, we consider how the Feltham and Ohlson (1996) model can be extended to incorporate time variation in expected profitability of capital investment caused by time variation in managerial FCF retention activities and show that this model embeds both payout value relevance and payout informational relevance. We conclude that, while research on accounting valuation models based on the assumption of payout valuation irrelevance is of theoretical and practical interest, the development of models where FCF payout plays an explicit valuation and informational role due to issues of moral hazard is an interesting and important direction for future research.

Keywords: Payout policy, equity valuation, accounting information

Suggested Citation:

Clubb, Colin and Walker, Martin, Payout Policy Relevance and Accounting Based Valuation (May 17, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2111558 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2111558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Akbar , A W Stark
Deflators, net shareholder cash flows, dividends, capital contributions and estimated models of corporate valuation
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 30 , p. 1211 - 1233 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C D B Clubb
An empirical study of the information content of earnings, cash flows and funds flows
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 22 , p. 35 - 52 Posted: 1995
C D B Clubb
Valuation and clean surplus accounting -some implications of the Feltham and Ohlson (1992) model for the relative information content of earnings and cash flows
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , p. 329 - 366 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C D B Clubb
Information dynamics, dividend displacement, conservatism, and earnings measurement: a development of the Ohlson (1995) valuation framework
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,566
RANK
291,202
3 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies