Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Voluntary Disclosure and Cost of Capital

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2012 Last revised: 5 Sep 2012

Edwige Cheynel

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: April 12, 2012

Abstract

This paper explores the links between firms’ voluntary disclosures and their cost of capital. Existing studies investigate the relation between mandatory disclosures and cost of capital, and find no cross-sectional effect but a negative association in time-series. In this paper, I find that when disclosure is voluntary firms that disclose their information have a lower cost of capital than firms that do not disclose, but the association between voluntary disclosure and cost of capital for disclosing and non-disclosing firms is positive in aggregate. I further examine whether reductions in cost of capital indicate improved risk-sharing or investment efficiency. I also find that high (low) disclosure frictions lead to overinvestment (underinvestment) relative to first-best. As average cost of capital proxies for risk-sharing but not investment efficiency, the relation between cost of capital and ex-ante efficiency may be ambiguous and often irrelevant.

Keywords: cost of capital, systematic risk, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheynel, Edwige, A Theory of Voluntary Disclosure and Cost of Capital (April 12, 2012). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2112174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , And C Williams
Accounting Quality: International Accounting Standards and US GAAP Posted: 2007
Crossref
T Becka , A Demirg-Kuntb , And V Maksimovic
Financing patterns around the world: Are small firms different?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 487 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Bertomeu , A Beyer , R A Dye
Capital Structure, Cost of Capital, and Voluntary Disclosures
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 857 - 886 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Bertomeu , R P Magee
From Low-Quality Reporting to Financial Crises: Politics of Disclosure Regulation along the Economic Cycle
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 209 - 227 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
643
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,267
RANK
94,419
33 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies