Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Funded Inside: The Internal Transfer of Costs and Risks from Collateralized and Funded Derivatives

25 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2012 Last revised: 7 Jan 2013

Christian P. Fries

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Mathematics; DZ Bank AG

Joerg Zinnegger

Z-FRM GmbH

Date Written: September 2, 2012

Abstract

By introducing a funding cost component like a funding valuation adjustment (FVA) into the valuation of derivatives, the replication strategy inherent in the valuation approach needs to be reflected in the real management of the position. Whilst in theory the replication takes place in one self financing portfolio, the roles in an institution is often split between various functions like trading, collateral management or treasury. The first part of the article revisits the dynamic replication of the derivative to maintain profit and loss neutral position with respect to the funding. The second part focuses on the roles that are involved in the replication strategy and the required internal transactions between these roles. This serves as a starting point to assign the roles to existing functions or the setup of dedicated functions.

Keywords: funding, derivative, collateral, valuation, FVA

Suggested Citation:

Fries, Christian P. and Zinnegger, Joerg, Funded Inside: The Internal Transfer of Costs and Risks from Collateralized and Funded Derivatives (September 2, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2115900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2115900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Christoph ; Burgard , Kjaer , Mats
In the balance. Risk magazine Posted: 2011-11
Christian P. Fries
Funded Replication: Valuing with Stochastic Funding
Pages: 26 Posted: 6 Mar 2011 Last revised: 14 Apr 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christian P. Fries
Funded Replication: Fund Exchange Process and the Valuation with Different Funding-Accounts (Cross-Currency Analogy to Funding Revisited)
Pages: 12 Posted: 23 Jul 2012 Last revised: 25 Jul 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vladimir V Piterbarg
Funding beyond Collateral. Risk 2010. c 2012 Christian Fries
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,737
RANK
229,218
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies