Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sharing Cost of Shared Services Centre

European Financial and Accounting Journal, Vol. 6, No. 4, pp. 49-59, 2011

11 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2012

Tomas Buus

University of Economics, Prague

Date Written: November 28, 2011

Abstract

In the presented paper we develop model of apportionment of cost generated by variability and mean value of flows from (to) shared services centre. It can be either cash pool or distribution centre, or even some kind of customer service centre. The apportionment formula for the cost of capacity generated by flow variability turns out to be regression coefficient of flow to (from) the distribution centre (cash pool) generated by particular company within the multibusiness enterprise as endogenous variable to flow of inventory (cash) for the whole distribution centre (cash pool) as exogenous variable. The cost generated by the flow of requirements (goods, money) itself, i.e. by the mean value of the flow, has to be split between SSC customers according to their share on that flow. Result does not depend on the form of cost function as long as it is strictly increasing function of flow from (into) SSC (orders, stock, cash) and of mean of that flow.

Keywords: distribution centre, cash pool, capacity, cost attribution

JEL Classification: C61, G39, M21

Suggested Citation:

Buus, Tomas, Sharing Cost of Shared Services Centre (November 28, 2011). European Financial and Accounting Journal, Vol. 6, No. 4, pp. 49-59, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2116235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
J A Frenkel , B Jovanovic
On Transactions and Precautionary Demand for Money
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 95 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 43 Posted: 1980
Crossref
K Indenfurth , S Vogelgesang
Concepts for Safety Stock Determination under Stochastic Demand and Different Types of Random Production Yield Posted: 2011-10-10
Crossref
C Maglaras , A Zeevi
Pricing and Capacity Sizing for Systems with Shared Resources: Approximate Solutions and Scaling Relations
Management Science , volume 49 , issue 8 , p. 1018 - 1038 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H M Miller , D Orr
A Model of the Demand for Money by Firms
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 413 - 435 Posted: 1966
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,291
RANK
556,453
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Inventory Systems with Stochastic Demand and Supply: Properties and Approximations

By Amanda J. Schmitt, Lawrence V. Snyder, ...

Infinite-Horizon Models for Inventory Control under Yield Uncertainty and Disruptions

By Amanda J. Schmitt and Lawrence V. Snyder

A Quantitative Analysis of Disruption Risk in a Multi-Echelon Supply Chain

By Amanda J. Schmitt and Mahender Singh

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies