Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Timeliness versus Accuracy and Information Externalities

AAA 2013 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

51 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2012 Last revised: 1 Dec 2012

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Naomi Rothenberg

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: November 2012

Abstract

In this paper, we employ a sequential production setting in order to study the tradeoff between timeliness and accuracy of a signal about productivity. An information externality arises because the upstream agent’s information is disseminated to the downstream agent, and affects production decisions and incentives. The signal can be produced early, before both agents choose effort, in which case the signal is less accurate, or the upstream agent can produce a more accurate signal based on effort, but before the downstream agent chooses effort. When the signal can be verified, as with public information, the principal’s preference for an early versus a late signal depends on the effect of the upstream agent’s effort on the outcome of the signal. For the upstream agent, the tradeoff involves generating an early, inaccurate signal useful for decision-making, while a late signal is more accurate, but is only useful for performance evaluation. If either the incentive problem is insignificant or the use of the late signal as a performance measure is diminished, the principal will prefer an early signal. For the downstream agent, the signal is always pre-decision, and an early, inaccurate signal may be less costly because of stronger incentives with better quality information. With private information, the upstream agent must be paid information rents with both an early or late signal. The information rents dampen the use of the late signal as a performance measure, and the principal may prefer an early signal if the upstream agent’s productive impact on the signal is low, or if the early signal is sufficiently accurate.

Keywords: principal-agent theory, asymmetric information, timeliness, accuracy

JEL Classification: D82, L20, L23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Christian and Rothenberg, Naomi, Timeliness versus Accuracy and Information Externalities (November 2012). AAA 2013 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2130906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
S Baiman , K Sivaramakrishnan
The Value of Private Pre-Decision Information in a Principal-Agent Context. The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 747 - 766 Posted: 1991
J Christensen
Communication in Agencies
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , p. 661 - 674 Posted: 1981
Crossref
J Christensen
Conceptual frameworks of Accounting from an Information Perspective. Accounting and Business Research , volume 40 , p. 287 - 299 Posted: 2010
P Christensen , G Feltham , C Hofmann , F Sabac
Timeliness, Accuracy, and Relevance in Dynamic Incentive Contracts Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,478
RANK
297,230
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies