Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Information and Performance Measurement Bias with Multiple Agents

46 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2012 Last revised: 26 Feb 2015

Naomi Rothenberg

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: February 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper studies the effect of performance measurement error and bias on the principal’s choice of whether to appoint a supervisor who signals private, pre-decision, productivity information to a subordinate. Without a supervisor, both agents are privately informed and relative performance evaluation is optimal, and an increase in the conservative bias increases information rents only if the bias is insignificant. With a supervisor, the subordinate learns about productivity by observing the supervisor’s effort, reducing the supervisor’s incentives to shirk. Thus, joint performance evaluation can be optimal in compensating the supervisor, and an increase in the conservative bias reduces the supervisor’s rents. The principal prefers a supervisor if the decision-making aspect of the agents’ information is insignificant, implying that effort incentives are paramount. Further, with a less accurate performance measure, the principal’s preference for a supervisor increases but only if the level of the conservative bias is small.

Keywords: principal-agent theory, organizational design, asymmetric information, performance measurement

JEL Classification: D23, D82, J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rothenberg, Naomi, Private Information and Performance Measurement Bias with Multiple Agents (February 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2130729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
S Baiman , K Sivaramakrishnan
The Value of Private Pre-Decision Information in a Principal-Agent Context
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 747 - 766 Posted: 1991
J Baldoni
Great Motivation Secrets of Great Leaders Posted: 2005
D Blackwell , J Brickley , M Weisbach
Accounting Information and Internal Performance Evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , p. 331 - 358 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R Bushman , R Indjejikian , M Penno
Private Pre-decision Information, Performance Measure Congruity, and the Value of Delegation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 587 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,949
RANK
434,412
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Organizational Structure, Aggregation of Performance Measures, and Incentives

By Christian Hofmann and Steffen Reichmann

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies