Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Self-Imposed Investment Rationing in Light of Discretionary Disclosures

AAA 2013 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

28 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2012

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ning Gong

Deakin University; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: August 20, 2012

Abstract

The role of investment rationing by one party to discipline reporting of private information by another is well recognized. Formally, adverse selection models succinctly capture this effect via the crisp information rents vs. efficiency tradeoff. This paper takes a different slant to investment rationing by showing that production cuts can also be self-imposed: by scaling down his upfront investments, an entrepreneur can discipline his own subsequent aggressive reporting behavior. In particular, in this paper, a higher investment by an entrepreneur raises his stakes, magnifying his incentives to acquire and selectively disclose information in order to manipulate market price. Of course, the rational market is not fooled and responds by suitably discounting price. As a consequence, the upfront lowering of investment permits the entrepreneur to credibly signal to the market that he will limit his shenanigans thereby also limiting retaliatory market penalties.

Keywords: Investment rationing, disclosure

JEL Classification: Game theory, Non-cooperative games

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Gong, Ning and Ramanan, Ram, Self-Imposed Investment Rationing in Light of Discretionary Disclosures (August 20, 2012). AAA 2013 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2132716 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2132716
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Antle , G D Eppen
Capital Rationing and Organizational Slack in Capital Budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Antle , J Fellingham
Models of Capital Investments With Private Information and Incentives: A Selective Review
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 24 , p. 887 - 908 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Beyer , I Guttman
Voluntary Disclosure, Manipulation and Real Effects
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2012
Crossref
P M Dechow , R G Sloan
Executive Incentives and the Horizon Problem: An Empirical Investigation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 51 - 89 Posted: 1991
Load more
1 Citations
Philip Beaulieu
Voluntary Income Reporting
Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 277 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,010
RANK
451,432
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies