Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Minimum Distribution Requirement and Public Policy

Tuck School of Business Working Paper Series

31 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2012 Last revised: 17 Apr 2013

Carolyn Levine

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Richard C. Sansing

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: April 15, 2013

Abstract

This study examines whether the minimum distribution requirement that requires private foundations to spend at least five percent of their assets on charitable purposes should be increased or decreased. The study explicitly states an objective function that the government tries to maximize and a population of heterogeneous philanthropists that care about both distributions to charity and assets under control. An increase in the minimum distribution requirement increases the rate of charitable distributions from some foundations, but deters some philanthropists from forming foundations. Whether the minimum distribution requirement should be increased or decreased depends on the magnitudes of these two effects.

Keywords: Private foundations, minimum distribution requirement

JEL Classification: L31

Suggested Citation:

Levine, Carolyn and Sansing, Richard C., The Minimum Distribution Requirement and Public Policy (April 15, 2013). Tuck School of Business Working Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2133210 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2133210
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
E Brody
Charitable endowments and the democratization of dynasty
Arizona Law Review , volume 39 , p. 873 - 948 Posted: 1997
Cambridge Associates
Sustainable payout for foundations Posted: 2000
J Cordes , R Sansing
Institutional philanthropy
Financing Nonpro…ts Posted: 2007
Akash Deep , Peter Frumkin
The Foundation Payout Puzzle
Hauser Center for Nonprofit Organizations Working Paper No. 9 Pages: 28 Posted: 9 Mar 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,731
RANK
713,531
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies