Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Trade-Off between Risk and Compensation

Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Oct 2012 Last revised: 9 Oct 2012

Paolo Petacchi

American University - Accounting

Date Written: July 3, 2012

Abstract

In a principal agent setting I show that the trade-off between risk and compensation is not monotonic. It is always beneficial for a company to offer a pay-per-performance contract that entails an additional performance measure that imposes more risk to the agent. The agent benefits from the imposition only if he is sufficiently risk averse and/or the additional performance measure is risky enough. The paper sheds light on the mixed results on the association between risk and incentives, and also offers some insight on organizational policies on incentives and communication.

Keywords: Incentives, risk, uncertainty, standard agency model

JEL Classification: J33, J41, G32, L22

Suggested Citation:

Petacchi, Paolo, On the Trade-Off between Risk and Compensation (July 3, 2012). Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2155737
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
876
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Decision-Making under Risk & Uncertainty eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies