Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentive Contracting under Ambiguity-Aversion

34 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2012 Last revised: 26 Feb 2017

Qi Liu

Peking University - Department of Finance

Lei Lu

University of Manitoba

Bo Sun

University of Virginia Darden School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 11, 2016

Abstract

This paper studies a principal-agent model in which the information on future firm performance is ambiguous and the agent is averse to ambiguity. We show that if firm risk is ambiguous, while stocks always induce the agent to perceive a high risk, options can induce him to perceive a low risk. As a result, options can be less costly in incentivizing the agent than stocks in the presence of ambiguity. In addition, we show that providing the agent with more incentives would induce the agent to perceive a higher risk, and there is a discontinuous jump in the compensation cost as incentives increase, which makes the principal reluctant to reset contracts frequently when underlying fundamentals change. Thus, compensation contracts exhibit an inertia property. Lastly, the model sheds some light on the use of relative performance evaluation, and provides a rationale for the puzzle of pay-for-luck in the presence of ambiguity.

Keywords: ambiguity, executive compensation, options

JEL Classification: G30, J33

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Qi and Lu, Lei and Sun, Bo, Incentive Contracting under Ambiguity-Aversion (November 11, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2160091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2160091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
David Ahn , Syngjoo Choi , Douglas Gale , Shachar Kariv
Estimating AmbiguityAversion in a Portfolio Choice Experiment Posted: 2009
Crossref
Ana M. Albuquerque
Do Growth-Option Firms Use Less Relative Performance Evaluation?
The Accounting Review (2014), 89(1): 27 – 60., Pages: 50 Posted: 11 Sep 2007 Last revised: 7 Jan 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marianne Bertrand , Sendhil Mullainathan
Are CEOs Rewarded for Luck? The Ones Without Principals Are
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 116 , p. 901 - 932 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Bettis , John M Carr , Michael L Bizjak , Lemmon
Exercise Behavior, Valuation, and the Incentives Effects of Employee Stock Options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 76 , p. 445 - 470 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,779
RANK
306,185
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies