Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Information in Building Reputation in an Investment/Trust Game

European Accounting Review, 22.3 (2013): 513-532

32 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2012 Last revised: 27 Jul 2021

Radhika Lunawat

University of California, Irvine - Accounting Area

Date Written: November 5, 2012

Abstract

This article analyzes the role of information in building reputation in an investment/trust game. The model allows for information asymmetry in a finitely repeated sender-receiver game and solves for sequential equilibrium to show that if there are some trustworthy managers who always disclose their private information and choose to return a fair proportion of the firm’s income as dividend to the investor, then a rational manager will mimic such behaviour in an attempt to earn a reputation for being trustworthy. The rational manager will mimic with probability 1 in the early periods of the game. The investor, too, will invest with probability 1 in these periods. However, in the later periods, the rational manager will mimic with a certain probability strictly less than 1. The probability will be such that it will make the investor indifferent between investing and not investing, and he, in turn, will invest with a probability (strictly less than 1) that will make the rational manager indifferent between mimicking and not mimicking; that is, the game will begin with pure strategy play but will switch to mixed strategy play. There is one exception, though: when the investor’s ex ante beliefs about the manager’s trustworthiness are exceptionally high, the game will continue in a pure strategy, and the switch to mixed strategy play will never occur. Identical results obtain if the manager’s choice of whether to share his private information with the investor is replaced by exogenously imposed information sharing.

Keywords: Information, Disclosure, Reputation, Trust

JEL Classification: M41, D82, C11, C73.

Suggested Citation:

Lunawat, Radhika, The Role of Information in Building Reputation in an Investment/Trust Game (November 5, 2012). European Accounting Review, 22.3 (2013): 513-532, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2171303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , G Sadka
Is financial reporting shaped by equity markets or by debt markets? An international study of timeliness and conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Basu , G Waymire
Recordkeeping and human evolution', Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , p. 201 - 230 Posted: 2006
S Basu , J Dickhaut , G Hecht , K Towry , G Waymire
Recordkeeping alters economic history by promoting reciprocity
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , volume 106 , p. 1009 - 1023 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,937
RANK
418,259
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Recordkeeping and Human Evolution

By Sudipta Basu and Gregory B. Waymire

Recordkeeping Alters Economic History by Promoting Reciprocity

By Sudipta Basu, John W. Dickhaut, ...

Reputation Effects of Information Sharing

By Radhika Lunawat

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies