Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Intra-Group Hybrid Finance and International Taxation

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2012-01

SFB International Tax Coordination Discussion Paper No. 33

43 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2013

Eva Eberhartinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Erich Pummerer

University of Innsbruck - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Andreas Florian Göritzer

CONFIDA Klagenfurt Steuerberatungsgesellschaft mbH

Date Written: July 6, 2010

Abstract

In intra‐group finance hybrid instruments allow for tailor‐made form of finance. Hence hybrid finance is often used for international tax planning in multinational groups.

Due to a lack of international tax harmonization or tax coordination qualification conflict can arise. A specific hybrid instrument is classified as debt in one country, and as equity in the other country. This may lead to double taxation. In the reverse case, double non‐taxation can arise. Against this legal background one might expect that cross‐border hybrid intra‐group finance is advantageous in comparison to classical debt finance in case of double‐non‐taxation while it can be expected to be disadvantageous in the case of double taxation of the yield. Previous studies do not include qualification conflicts. Thus the question arises how qualification conflicts are affecting an intra‐group finance decision.

We examine effects of such qualification conflicts, resulting from the use of cross‐border, intra‐group hybrid finance, on the tax‐advantageousness as compared to classical debt finance. The analysis is based on a binomial simulation model including economic and legal uncertainty. We show that the results of our analysis under uncertainty vary significantly when compared to the more obvious results under economic and legal certainty.

Keywords: hybrid finance, cross‐border intra‐group finance, qualification conflicts, simulation

JEL Classification: G32, H21, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Eberhartinger, Eva and Pummerer, Erich and Göritzer, Andreas Florian, Cross-Border Intra-Group Hybrid Finance and International Taxation (July 6, 2010). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2012-01 , SFB International Tax Coordination Discussion Paper No. 33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2171635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2171635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J Alworth , G Arachi
The Effect of Taxes on Corporate Financing Decisions: Evidence from a Panel of Italian Firms
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 353 - 376 Posted: 2001
R Bertl
Die Abbildung hybrider Finanzierungsinstrumente im Rechnungswesen
Hybride Finanzierungsinstrumente , p. 99 - 117 Posted: 2005
M Bradley , G A Jarrel , E Han Kim
On the Existence of an Optimal Capital Structure: Theory and Evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 857 - 878 Posted: 1984
Crossref
B Chowdhry , J D Coval
Internal financing of multinational subsidiaries: Debt vs equity
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 87 - 106 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,870
RANK
190,292
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies