Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk-Incentives Trade-Off and Outside Options

OR Spectrum, 2012

23 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2012

Ying-Ju Chen

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Information Systems, Business Statistics and Operations Management

Date Written: November 26, 2012

Abstract

Despite the prominence of the risk-incentives trade-off in the agency theory, empirical evidence provides at best a mixed result. In this paper, we argue that these mixed results may be attributed to the heterogeneity of risk aversion magnitude among the agents and the outside options available on the market. We show that when an increase of the uncertainty amplifies the riskiness of principal's internal project more than the agent's outside option, a positive risk-incentives relationship can be predicted when the internal project is sufficiently risky. On the other hand, when an uncertainty increase amplifies the riskiness of outside option more than the internal project, this positive risk-incentives relationship occurs if the internal project is of limited risk. These results hold irrespective of whether the agent's risk aversion magnitude is publicly observable or privately known. Our analysis leads to a more fine-tuned empirical validation of agency theory and some testable hypotheses on the interactions between internal and external uncertainties.

Keywords: risk-incentives trade-off, compensation, mechanism design, game theory

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ying-Ju, Risk-Incentives Trade-Off and Outside Options (November 26, 2012). OR Spectrum, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2181220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
D Allen , D Lueck
The role of risk in contract choice
Economics and Organization , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 704 - 736 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Anderson , D Schmittlein
Integration of the sales force: An empirical examination
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 385 - 395 Posted: 1984
Crossref
J Core , W Guay
The use of equity grants to manage optimal equity incentive levels
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Dutta
Managerial expertise, private information, and pay-performance sensitivity
Management science , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 429 - 442 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,580
RANK
889,053
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies