Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resolution of Information Asymmetry in Management Accounting: A Game Theoretic Way

Sinha, A. (2014). Resolution of Information Asymmetry in Management Accounting: A Game Theoretic Way. Artha Vijnana, 56(3), 382-401.

20 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2012 Last revised: 21 Dec 2015

Avik Sinha

Indian Institute of Management Indore

Date Written: December 3, 2012

Abstract

Information asymmetry has been a critical issue in management accounting. Non-co-linearity of interests among market participants brings forth this problem. As a decision making tool, firms should leverage out the benefits of management accounting system to encounter this problem, as it has a direct impact on the financial performance of firms. Since reduction of information asymmetry comes with a cost, firms should make an optimized way to balance the costs and benefits. Contracting parties consider this cost and enter into a game, driven by information asymmetry. Equilibrium outcomes of these games can be achieved in non-cooperative and cooperative ways.

This paper proposes a model based on dictator game to encounter prevailing problem regarding information asymmetry given the no-negotiating behavior of transacting parties. This model takes into account the price elasticity of accounting information, quantum of available accounting information and expected utility level achieved by principal and agent. Suggested optimal negotiating behavior can result in reduction of information asymmetry prevailing between transacting parties. Roles of management, accountants and competitors are suggested hereafter in accordance with the solution provided by the model.

Keywords: Management Accounting, Auditing, Information asymmetry, Negotiation, Price Elasticity of Information

JEL Classification: A12, D82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sinha, Avik, Resolution of Information Asymmetry in Management Accounting: A Game Theoretic Way (December 3, 2012). Sinha, A. (2014). Resolution of Information Asymmetry in Management Accounting: A Game Theoretic Way. Artha Vijnana, 56(3), 382-401., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2184340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2184340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
A A Alchain , H Demsetz
Production Information Costs and Economic Organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
R H Ashton , J J Willingham , R K Elliott
An Empirical Analysis of Audit Delay
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Crossref
R Axelrod
The Evolution of Cooperation Posted: 1984
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
The Effect of Relative Performance Evaluation on Earnings Management: A Game-Theoretic Approach
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,319
RANK
141,557
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies