Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards, Cost of Capital, Resource Allocation, and Welfare in a Large Economy

Forthcoming in The Accounting Review (2013)

55 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2012

Guochang Zhang

University of Hong Kong

Date Written: October 2012

Abstract

In an extended Capital Asset Pricing Model setting, I examine how the quality of accounting standards affects real investment and welfare through its impact on investment hurdle rates. In this model, cash flow uncertainty arises from two fundamental sources relating, respectively, to economic performance and accounting measurement errors, but they combine into a single market factor for asset pricing. Accounting standards matter to real investment not only because information quality affects the required risk premiums on individual projects relative to a given market factor, but also because information quality affects the aggregate investment level and hence the market factor itself. I show that improving accounting standards causes both an expansion of the real economy and a shift in capital allocation across firms. While welfare increases as a result, firms in certain risk classes end up with higher costs of capital and lower values, some of which are crowded out from the economy. The study also lends insights into how the real and financial impacts of accounting standards depend on a firm’s accounting and economic characteristics.

Keywords: accounting standards, resource allocation, investment hurdle rates, cost of capital, welfare

JEL Classification: M41, G12

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Guochang, Accounting Standards, Cost of Capital, Resource Allocation, and Welfare in a Large Economy (October 2012). Forthcoming in The Accounting Review (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2186995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins Posted: 1953
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 6. Status of Accounting Research Bulletins Posted: 1965
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 1997. Accounting Statements of Position 97-2. Software Revenue Recognition
Opinion No. 25. Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees Posted: 1972
Load more
3 Citations
Sang Wu , Wenjie Xue
Accounting Comparability and Relative Performance Evaluation by Capital Markets
Wu, Sang, and Wenjie Xue. "Accounting comparability and relative performance evaluation by capital markets." Journal of Accounting and Economics 75.1 (2023): 101535. · 40 Pages · Posted: 24 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 30 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 632
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yong Huang , Chao Yan
Global Accounting Standards, Financial Statement Comparability, and the Cost of Capital
International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming · 33 Pages · Posted: 13 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 1 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 249
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carlos Corona , Zeqiong Huang , Hyun Hwang
Accounting Uniformity, Comparability, and Resource Allocation Efficiency
The Accounting Review, volume 99, issue 1, 2024 [<a href="https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2021-0024" rel="nofollow">10.2308/TAR-2021-0024</a>] · 53 Pages · Posted: 27 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 17 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 764
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
618
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,783
RANK
99,343
3 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies