Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Irreversibility Effect and Agency Conflicts

Theory and Decision, Forthcoming

25 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2012

Clemens Löffler

University of Applied Sciences for Management and Communication (FHWien der WKW)

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Date Written: October 3, 2012

Abstract

This paper studies the influence of agency conflicts on the irreversibility effect. Using a dynamic variant of the static Baron and Myerson (1982) adverse selection model, we characterize under which circumstances the irreversibility effect arises in the presence and absence of an agency conflict. In particular, we find that in the presence of an agency conflict the irreversibility effect arises in more circumstances than in the standard first-best analysis that abstracts from agency problems.

Keywords: Irreversibility Effect, Irreversible Decisions, Uncertainty, Agency Conflicts

Suggested Citation:

Löffler, Clemens and Pfeiffer, Thomas and Schneider, Georg Thomas, The Irreversibility Effect and Agency Conflicts (October 3, 2012). Theory and Decision, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2191569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2191569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
sb 1L ()) is non-increasing. Thus, the
R Antle , P Bogetoft , A Stark
Information systems, incentives and the timing of investments
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 267 - 294 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Antle , P Bogetoft , A Stark
Incentive problems and investment timing options Posted: 2007
Crossref
Essays in Accounting Theory in Honor of Joel S. Demski , p. 145 - 168
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
RANK
672,649
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Value of Waiting to Invest

By Robert L. Mcdonald and Daniel Siegel

Irreversibility, Uncertainty, and Investment

By Robert S. Pindyck

Irreversibility, Uncertainty, and Cyclical Investment

By Ben S. Bernanke

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies