Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revenue Decentralization, the Local Income Tax Deduction, and the Provision of Public Goods

National Tax Journal, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2012 Last revised: 28 Jan 2013

John William Hatfield

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: December 19, 2012

Abstract

We consider a model where local and national governments both tax income and use the revenue to invest in both productive and consumptive public goods. Local governments will overprovide the consumptive public good if the local income tax is (partially) deductible. However, without full deductibility, local governments will underprovide local productive public goods. Hence, to reduce the distortions in the local governments' decisions, the national government will underinvest in both types of public goods. We also consider an alternative fiscal structure where the national government sets one national tax rate and provides transfers to the local governments: this results in lower welfare than one where local governments raise revenue independently.

Keywords: Local tax deduction, Fiscal federalism, Fiscal externality, Public good provision

JEL Classification: H21, H23, H71, H72, H77

Suggested Citation:

Hatfield, John William, Revenue Decentralization, the Local Income Tax Deduction, and the Provision of Public Goods (December 19, 2012). National Tax Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2191709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Scott Ashworth , Bruce Bueno De Mesquita
Monotone Comparative Statics for Models with Politics
American Journal of Political Science , volume 50 , p. 214 - 231 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Robert J Barro , Charles J Redlick
Macroeconomic Effects from Government Purchases and Taxes
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 126 , p. 51 - 102 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Occupational Employment and Wages Posted: 2008
Crossref
Brookes D Billman , Cunningham Jr , B Noel
Nonbusiness State and Local Taxes: The Case for Deductability
Tax Notes , volume 28 , p. 1105 - 1120 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,036
RANK
605,468
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Publicly Provided Goods eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Efficiency Consequences of Local Revenue Equalization: Tax Competition and Tax Distortions

By Sam Bucovetsky and Michael Smart

The Incentive Effect of Fiscal Equalization Transfers on Tax Policy

By Thiess Buettner

The Fiscal Incentive Effects of the Australian Equalisation System

By Bev Dahlby and Neil Warren

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies