Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Frequent Financial Reporting Can Cause Managerial Short-Termism: An Analysis of the Costs and Benefits of Increasing Reporting Frequency

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-01

43 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2013 Last revised: 23 Jan 2014

Frank Gigler

University of Minnesota - Carlson School of Management

Chandra Kanodia

University of Minnesota - Carlson School of Management

Haresh Sapra

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Raghu Venugopalan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2012

Abstract

We develop a cost-benefit tradeoff that provides new insights into the frequency with which firms should be required to report the results of their operations to the capital market. The benefit to increasing the frequency of financial reporting is that it causes market prices to better deter investments in negative net present value projects. The cost of increased frequency is that it increases the probability of inducing managerial short-termism. We analyze the tradeoff between these costs and benefits and develop conditions under which greater reporting frequency is desirable and conditions under which it is not.

Keywords: Transparency, Mandatory Financial Reporting, Frequency of Financial Reporting, Real Effects of Disclosure, Managerial Myopia

JEL Classification: D80, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gigler, Frank and Kanodia, Chandra and Sapra, Haresh and Venugopalan, Raghu, How Frequent Financial Reporting Can Cause Managerial Short-Termism: An Analysis of the Costs and Benefits of Increasing Reporting Frequency (December 1, 2012). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2196152 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2196152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
L L Bebchuk , Stole
Do Short-term Objectives Lead to Under-or Overinvestment in Long-term Projects
Journal of Finance XLVIII , p. 719 - 729 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S R Bhojraj , Libby
Capital Market Pressure, Disclosure Frequency-Induced Earnings/Cash Flow Conflict, and Managerial Myopia
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Brandengurger , B Polak
When Managers Cover their Posteriors: Making the Decisions the Market Wants to See
The Rand Journal of Economics , volume 27 , p. 523 - 541 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Diamond , P Dybvig
Bank runs, Deposit Insurance, and Liquidity
Journal of Political Economy , volume 91 , p. 401 - 419 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
873
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,009
RANK
63,140
59 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies