Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Tax Effects on Economic Damages

Southern Illinois University - Carbondale Economics Department Discussion Paper No. 2013-02

21 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2013

Scott D. Gilbert

Southern Illinois University - Department of Economics

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper provides a theoretical statement about the effect of tax on the present value of lost income streams. I consider the simple case of flat tax rates on earnings and interest income. I approximate tax effects via the instantaneous rate of change - in present value – when the tax rate goes from zero to a small positive number. In this setting I show that present value is lower before tax than after tax when the earning stream is short, with the reverse outcome holding when the earnings stream is long. The switch point, where the tax effect goes from negative to positive, depends on the theoretical model’s inputs. I characterize the effect of inputs on this switch point, and illustrate via an example of an injured railroad worker’s claim of economic damages.

Keywords: income stream, tax, present value, tort, personal injury, wrongful death

JEL Classification: K13, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gilbert, Scott Dale, A Theory of Tax Effects on Economic Damages (January 1, 2013). Southern Illinois University - Carbondale Economics Department Discussion Paper No. 2013-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2198605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2198605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Gary A Anderson , Joel R Barber
Taxes and the present value assessment of economic losses in personal injury litigation
Journal of Legal Economics , volume 17 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2010
Scott Dale Gilbert
Taxes and the Present Value Assessment of Economic Losses in Personal Injury Litigation
Southern Illinois University - Carbondale Economics Department Discussion Paper No. 2013-01 Pages: 22 Posted: 10 Jan 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John R Hicks
Value and Capital Posted: 1939
Frederick R Macaulay
Some theoretical problems suggested by the movements of interest rates, bond yields , and stock prices in the United States since 1856 Posted: 1938
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,158
RANK
640,233
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies