Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Monitoring and Endogenous Information Asymmetry

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1309

38 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2013 Last revised: 7 Aug 2013

Jie Tian

University of Waterloo

Date Written: October 21, 2012

Abstract

Boards of directors are frequently criticized for their lack of monitoring in executive decision making. Increasing board effort to reduce information asymmetry between executives and shareholders is commonly viewed as desirable. This study challenges this common view by demonstrating that active monitoring can reduce the CEO’s incentives to exert effort to acquire useful information for decision making. In particular, I model a CEO who has superior ability to acquire, process and interpret information relevant to investment decisions. I show that a board that actively solicits information from the CEO is beneficial only if the board is able to provide a sufficiently accurate evaluation of the information acquired by the CEO. If the board does not have the expertise to provide such an evaluation, it is better for the board to be passive and not interfere with the CEO’s decisions. My findings highlight the subtleties in monitoring an expert and show that when the board does not have the expertise, information asymmetry is endogenously created to provide incentives for CEOs to make efficient investment decisions.

Keywords: Information asymmetry, Information acquisition, Board monitoring, Project decision

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Jie, Board Monitoring and Endogenous Information Asymmetry (October 21, 2012). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1309, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2199087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: a conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contract approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 0200
Crossref
P Aghion , J Tirole
Real and formal authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,525
RANK
360,957
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies