Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Information Disclosure

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2013 Last revised: 31 Jan 2016

Martin Dierker

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Avanidhar Subrahmanyam

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Finance Area; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 21, 2013

Abstract

We explore the optimal timing of voluntary disclosures by firms. By delaying disclosure of a signal, firms encourage the acquisition of correlated signals by reducing informed investors’ exposure to the long-term risk of holding the asset. Immediate disclosure reduces rents from acquiring the correlated signal, and thus is sometimes suboptimal in a dynamic setting. We characterize conditions under which postponing disclosure is preferable, which allows us to develop predictions on the timing of voluntary information disclosures such as management guidance.

Keywords: disclosure, informational efficiency, noisy rational expectations

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Dierker, Martin and Subrahmanyam, Avanidhar, Dynamic Information Disclosure (January 21, 2013). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2204819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2204819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Alles , R Lundholm
On the optimality of public signals in the presence of private information
Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 93 - 112 Posted: 1993
Mittendorf Arya
The interaction between disclosure, competition between firms, and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 321 - 339 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,163
RANK
159,379
5 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Within-Industry Timing of Earnings Warnings: Do Managers Herd?

By Senyo Y. Tse and Jennifer Tucker

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements

By Viral V. Acharya, Peter M. Demarzo, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies