Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Taxes and Flexibility on Entrepreneurial Decisions with Moral Hazard and Simultaneous Firm and Personal Level Taxation

Arqus Quantative Tax Research Discussion Paper No. 141

35 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2013

Fabian Meißner

University of Paderborn

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: January 11, 2013

Abstract

In this paper we investigate the incentive effects of corporate taxes in an agency setting with a principal facing an investment opportunity including an abandonment option. We are particularly interested in the interplay of taxation and the real option on the principal’s incentives to motivate the agent to work hard. First, we extend the well-known studies on tax effects on decision making under uncertainty to moral hazard settings. In a benchmark case we find that, as confirmed in current literature, the corporate income tax has no incentive effect. If the principal accounts for the real option we show that paradoxical tax effects may occur. Also, with respect to the effect of the real option on the incentive problem we show that the option makes it less attractive for the principal to induce the agent to exert a high effort.

Keywords: Tax Effects, Real Options, Moral Hazard, Investment Decisions

JEL Classification: M41, D86, H25, H21

Suggested Citation:

Meißner, Fabian and Schneider, Georg Thomas and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, The Impact of Corporate Taxes and Flexibility on Entrepreneurial Decisions with Moral Hazard and Simultaneous Firm and Personal Level Taxation (January 11, 2013). Arqus Quantative Tax Research Discussion Paper No. 141, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2219190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2219190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
E Agliardi
Taxation and Investment Decisions: A Real Options Approach
Australian Economic Papers , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 55 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K Alpert
Taxation and the Early Exercise of Call Options
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 715 - 736 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L H R Alvarez , E Koskela
Progressive Taxation, Tax Exemption, and Irreversible Investment under Uncertainty
Journal of Public Economic Theory , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 169 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , B R Routledge
Project Assignment Rights and Incentives for Eliciting Ideas
Management Science , volume 48 , issue 7 , p. 886 - 899 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,259
RANK
366,257
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Limited Liability, Asymmetric Taxation, and Risk Taking - Why Partial Tax Neutralities Can Be Harmful

By Ralf Ewert and Rainer Niemann

Law, Organizational Form and Taxes: A Stakeholder Perspective

By Kose John, Vinay B. Nair, ...

Asymmetric Taxation and Performance-Based Incentive Contracts

By Rainer Niemann

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies