Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of Biased Reporting: Conservative and Liberal Accounting Policies in Oligopolies

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 21, No. 1, 2016

38 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2013 Last revised: 10 May 2019

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

John S. Hughes

University of California at Los Angeles

Richard E. Saouma

Eli Broad College of Business, Michigan State University

Date Written: May 26, 2015

Abstract

We examine the effects of biased (conservative or liberal) reporting on product market competition. Cournot duopolists observe either firm-specific or industry-wide shocks and provide noisy reports subject to an exogenous mandated bias attributed to public policy. Given neutral prior beliefs, either a conservative bias or a liberal bias enhances overall reporting-system informativeness as measured by the reduction of uncertainty. Consistent with previously established effects in the information sharing literature regarding increases in informativeness, we show that expected industry profits and expected consumer surplus may gain or lose from bias, depending on whether the shocks are firm-specific or industry-wide and the degree of product competition. Expected social welfare, however, always increases in bias, irrespective of the source of uncertainty and product substitutability or complementarity. We next consider a setting where firms self-select whether to bias reports and characterize regions of potential conflict with a public policy that maximizes expected social welfare. Further results on the differential effects of conservative or liberal bias follow from relaxing the assumption of neutral prior beliefs.

Keywords: Conservatism, Optimal Information Systems, Cournot, Duopoly

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Henry L. and Hughes, John S. and Saouma, Richard E., Implications of Biased Reporting: Conservative and Liberal Accounting Policies in Oligopolies (May 26, 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 21, No. 1, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2226141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2226141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: the case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Conservative accounting choices
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Anne Beyer
Conservatism and Aggregation: The Effect on Cost of Equity Capital and the Efficiency of Debt Contracts
Pages: 51 Posted: 26 Mar 2012 Last revised: 3 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Caskey , J Hughes
Assessing the impact of alternative fair value measures on the e¢ ciency of project selection and continuation
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 2 , p. 483 - 512 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
405
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,914
RANK
166,169
11 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies