Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is Driving the Price-to-Earnings Ratio: The Effect of Conservative Accounting and Growth

35 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013

Martin Staehle

University of Bern - Institute for Accounting

Niklas Lampenius

University of Hohenheim - Faculty of Business, Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: March 25, 2013

Abstract

Forward price-to-earnings ratios (PE ratios) play a central role in financial analysis and valuation. They are used to value comparable firms or to inform about mispriced stocks. We show that past investment growth and conservative accounting hinder a straightforward interpretation of the PE ratio. We analytically derive accounting-based explanations for cross sectional differences of PE ratios and analyze properties of their time series, such as volatility and mean reversion. Further, we illustrate the influence that management can take on the PE ratio by choosing accounting and investment policies. Our analysis identifies variables that drive the PE ratio and that could be used as empirical proxies to evaluate the magnitude of accounting-based influences.

Keywords: price-to-earnings ratio, unconditional conservative accounting, neutral accounting, growth, mean-reversion

JEL Classification: G11, G31, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Staehle, Martin and Lampenius, Niklas, What is Driving the Price-to-Earnings Ratio: The Effect of Conservative Accounting and Growth (March 25, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2239208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2239208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M Bajaj , D J Denis , A Sarin
Mean reversion in earnings and the use of E/P multiples in corporate valuation
J Appl Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 10 Posted: 2004
R Ball
Anomalies in relationships between securities' yields and yield-surrogates
J Finan Econ , volume 6 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 1978
Crossref
R Ball
The earnings-price anomaly
J Acc Econ , volume 15 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 319 - 345 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
J Acc Econ , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Dario Sanna
A Fast and Parsimonious Way to Estimate the Implied Rate of Return on Equity
18 Pages · Posted: 1 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 308
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,321
RANK
133,220
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Depreciation Rules and the Relation Between Marginal and Historical Cost

By Madhav V. Rajan and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Depreciation Rules and the Relation Between Marginal and Historical Cost

By Madhav V. Rajan and Stefan J. Reichelstein

Macroeconomic Variables and the E/P Ratio

By Prem C. Jain and Joshua G. Rosett

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies