Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Imitation in Product-Market Competition and Accounting Reporting

Journal of Management Accounting Research, forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2013 Last revised: 25 Jun 2020

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Ran Zhao

Peking University

Date Written: September 11, 2019

Abstract

We analyze the economic impact of the accounting treatment of exploration expenditures in three different accounting regimes: aggregate disclosure, disaggregated disclosure, and a voluntary choice. The disclosure of information regarding the outcome of exploration can be used by competitors in two ways: to assess the competitive gain of the firm or to imitate the firm's exploration. Different accounting treatments provide different information for these two purposes and, thereby, affect investment decisions differently.
Our study reveals two main takeaways. First, we find that, if the leader has a relatively high investment cost and can only afford to invest in one area, it chooses a non-reporting method to avoid imitation. However, if its investment cost is low, allowing for more investments, the leader chooses a reporting method if the follower is not bound to profit too much from a successful imitation. Second, we find that, if an accounting regime change that increases information about exploration outcomes is enforced, the leader's investment decision in general becomes more extreme. On the one hand, leaders with high investment costs may decrease their investment because the spillover effect is too strong. On the other hand, interestingly, leaders with low investment costs may actually increase their investment to dilute the imitation-useful information and even intimidate competitors.

Keywords: accounting capitalization disclosure, innovator, imitator, product competition

JEL Classification: M41, D43, C72

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Nan, Lin and Zhao, Ran, Imitation in Product-Market Competition and Accounting Reporting (September 11, 2019). Journal of Management Accounting Research, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2251506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2251506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Arya , H Frimor , B Mittendorf
Discretionary disclosure of proprietary information in a multi-segment firm
Management Science , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 645 - 658 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The interaction among disclosure, competition between firms, and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 321 - 339 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N V Ramanan
Synergy between accounting disclosures and forward-looking information in stock prices
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Bertomeu , E Cheynel
Asset measurement in imperfect credit markets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 965 - 984 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,024
RANK
229,218
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies