Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scrutiny and Information Influencing

Posted: 24 Apr 2013 Last revised: 24 Sep 2015

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Date Written: September 14, 2015

Abstract

In this paper we investigate the effectiveness of imposing scrutiny to fight firms' information garbling. We study a setting in which both firms with good and bad projects are able to influence the informativeness of a public signal regarding their project types through unobservable efforts, and scrutiny will be imposed if the outcome of the project is bad while the previously signal about the project type was good.

We show that a scrutiny threat is indeed effective in deterring bad firms' garbling behavior. However, in most cases it is optimal not to impose scrutiny at all, even if part of the scrutiny cost is reimbursable to investors. This is because scrutiny not only deters bad firms from garbling, but also hurts good firms by punishing them for "bad luck." A good firm may be accidentally punished if the signal is accurate about its type but the outcome unfortunately turns out to be bad. In most cases, the benefit of suppressing garbling is outweighed by the cost of hurting and discouraging good firms, and imposing scrutiny is not efficient. We also find that when a sufficiently large proportion of the scrutiny cost can be reimbursed to investors, a good firm's effort to improve information quality may even increase in the scrutiny cost.

Keywords: scrutiny, information garbling, earnings management

JEL Classification: G18, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Wen, Xiaoyan, Scrutiny and Information Influencing (September 14, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2255724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2255724
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,363
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies