Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Desirability of Tax Coordination When Countries Compete in Taxes and Infrastructure

29 Pages Posted: 8 May 2013

Yutao Han

Universite du Luxembourg

Patrice Pieretti

Universite du Luxembourg; Centre de Recherche en Économie Appliquée (CREA)

Benteng Zou

Centre de Recherche en Économie Appliquée (CREA)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 7, 2013

Abstract

In our paper, we demonstrate that when countries compete in taxes and infrastructure, coordination through a uniform tax rate or a minimum rate does not necessarily create the welfare effects observed under pure tax competition. The divergence is even worse when the competing jurisdictions differ in institutional quality. If tax revenues are used to gauge the desirability of coordination, our model demonstrates that imposing a uniform tax rate is Pareto-inferior to the non-cooperative equilibrium when countries compete in taxes and infrastructure. This result is completely reversed under pure tax competition if the countries are sufficiently similar in size. If a minimum tax rate is set within the range of those resulting from the non-cooperative equilibrium, the low tax country will never be better off. Finally, the paper demonstrates that the potential social welfare gains from tax harmonization crucially depend on the degree of heterogeneity among the competing countries.

Keywords: Tax competition, infrastructure, tax coordination, tax revenue, social welfare

JEL Classification: H21, H87, H73, F21, C72

Suggested Citation:

Han, Yutao and Pieretti, Patrice and Zou, Benteng, On the Desirability of Tax Coordination When Countries Compete in Taxes and Infrastructure (May 7, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2261712 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2261712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: an empirical investigation
The American Economic Review , volume 91 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R E Baldwin , P Krugman
Agglomeration, integration, and tax harmonisation
European Economic Review , volume 48 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Besley
Property rights and investment incentives: theory and evidence from Ghana
Journal of Political Economy , volume 103 , p. 903 - 937 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Boadway , F Flatters
Efficiency and equalization payments in a federal system of government: a synthesis and an extension of recent results
The Canadian Journal of Economics , volume 15 , p. 613 - 633 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
909
RANK
492,934
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation

By Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, ...

The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation

By Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, ...

The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation

By Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies