Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fishing for Excuses and Performance Evaluation

32 Pages Posted: 21 May 2013

Francois Larmande

Université de Sherbrooke

Jean-Pierre Ponssard

Ecole Polytechnique; University of Angers - French National Center for Scientific Research (CNRS); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2013

Abstract

We study a principal-agent model in which the agent can provide ex post additional relevant information regarding his performance. In particular, he can provide a legitimate excuse, that is, evidence that a poor result is only due to factors outside his control. However, building a convincing case requires time, time that is not spent on exerting productive effort, and thus generating information represents an opportunity cost. We obtain necessary and sufficient conditions for the principal to prefer a policy of adjusting ex post the performance measure for the information provided by the agent to a policy of conforming to a result-based system with no adjustments. The risk aversion and a possible limited liability of the agent play an important role in the analysis. This paper clarifies the issues associated with the so-called "excuse culture" prevailing in some organizations.

Keywords: Performance measurement, Manipulation, Controllability principle, Excuse culture, Influence activity

JEL Classification: D82, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Larmande, Francois and Ponssard, Jean-Pierre, Fishing for Excuses and Performance Evaluation (May 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2268004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2268004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
A Arya , J Glover
Performance measurement manipulation: cherry-picking what to correct
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 119 - 139 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Demski
Performance measure manipulation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 261 - 285 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Demski , H Frimor , D Sappington
Efficient manipulation in a repeated setting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Dutta , F Gigler
The effect of earnings forecasts on earnings management
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 631 - 655 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,669
RANK
538,134
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Limited Liability, the First-Order Approach, and the Ranking of Information Systems in Agencies

By Francois Larmande

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies