Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality, Profit at Risk, Conservatism, Earnings Management, Objectivity and Why Accounting Allocations Matter: A Statistical Perspective

48 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2013

Roger J. Willett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: February 14, 2012

Abstract

Earnings quality, conservative accounting and earnings management, are interpreted in a variety of ways in theory and empirical research in the accounting literature. Little attention is paid, in defining these concepts, to the accounting measurement procedures that generate accounting numbers or to how they reflect the underlying economic fundamentals of firm activities. This paper focuses on the statistical properties imparted to accounting earnings by accounting measurement practices. Accuracy, objectivity and impartiality in making accounting allocations and honesty and timeliness in correcting errors determine the level of earnings quality and the extent of earnings management. Conservatism is seen as a concept that relates to the risk in profit, rather than to its return element. Statistically, greater precision in accounting allocations leads to greater quality of earnings as a naturally conservative estimate of profit. Inaccurate, subjective or dishonest capitalization of expenditure is the main threat to conservatism and the quality of earnings. Formulae necessary to construct confidence intervals for reported earnings are provided.

Keywords: Earnings quality, earnings management, conservatism, financial risk, statistical activity cost analysis

JEL Classification: M41, C13, C60

Suggested Citation:

Willett, Roger J., Earnings Quality, Profit at Risk, Conservatism, Earnings Management, Objectivity and Why Accounting Allocations Matter: A Statistical Perspective (February 14, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2276191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2276191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Extent of increase (+) or decrease (-) in total earnings volatility comapred to the volatility of the demand component of earnings(in $) Number of accounting periods over which depreciation is charged (one period less than estimate of useful life of fixed asset)
W S Albrecht
Estimation error in income determination
The Accounting Review , p. 823 - 860 Posted: 1976-10
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R P Brief , J Owen
A Least Squares Allocation Model'
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 199 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,210
RANK
166,639
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies