Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Time-Money Trade-Off for Entrepreneurs: When to Hire the First Employee?

36 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2013

Onesun Steve Yoo

UCL School of Management, University College London

Guillaume Roels

INSEAD - Technology and Operations Management

Charles J. Corbett

University of California, Los Angeles - Anderson School of Business

Date Written: June 14, 2013

Abstract

Entrepreneurs need to invest money and time to grow their firms. Both money and time are often scarce, but the nature of these two resources is fundamentally different. Considering a small, fast-growing entrepreneurial firm, we show that the firm's key bottleneck resource shifts from money to time as the firm grows, and we characterize hiring as an operational mechanism for trading money for time to accelerate growth. The optimal time for entrepreneurs to hire their first employee occurs as soon as their available cash is sufficiently large, in order to alleviate the time bottleneck. We show that the cash threshold determined from a one-step look-ahead policy is optimal when growth is deterministic and performs well, even when that is not the case. We find that hiring costs delay hiring, whereas hiring times may either delay or expedite hiring, because of the non-trivial tradeoff between the need to preserve the growth momentum and the need to hire, before the opportunity cost of time becomes too large. Hence, time and money should be managed as distinct resources in growth-oriented firms.

Keywords: entrepreneurial operations, capacity investment, hiring, bottleneck, dynamic programming, super-modularity, heuristic

JEL Classification: C61, D24, M11, M13, M50

Suggested Citation:

Yoo, Onesun Steve and Roels, Guillaume and Corbett, Charles J., The Time-Money Trade-Off for Entrepreneurs: When to Hire the First Employee? (June 14, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2279766 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2279766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
H E Aldrich , C M Fiol
Fools rush in? The institutional context of industry creation
Academy of Management Review , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 645 - 670 Posted: 1994
Crossref
A Angelus , E L Porteus
Simultaneous capacity and production management of short-life-cycle, produce-to-stock goods under stochastic demand
Management Science , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 413 Posted: 2002
Crossref
T W Archibald , L C Thomas , J M Betts , R B Johnston
Should start-up companies be cautious? Inventory policies which maximize survival probabilities
Management Science , volume 48 , issue 9 , p. 1161 - 1174 Posted: 2002
Crossref
V Babich , M J Sobel
Pre-IPO operational and financial decisions
Management Science , volume 50 , issue 7 , p. 935 - 948 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,157
RANK
384,900
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Optimal Time Allocation for Process Improvement and Growth for Entrepreneurs

By Onesun Steve Yoo, Guillaume Roels, ...

3 Fellers Bakery

By Edward Hess

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies