Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Joint Effects of Multiple Legal System Characteristics on Auditing Standards and Auditor Behavior

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2281270

62 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2013 Last revised: 6 Apr 2015

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Ping Zhang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: April 2015

Abstract

This paper derives the impacts of legal system characteristics and auditing standards on auditor behavior (audit quality), and analyzes the determination of optimal auditing standards under different legal regimes. Legal regimes are characterized by differences in the uncertainty concerning the outcome of legal proceedings (termed vagueness of legal systems) and differences in the average size of damage awards. Auditing standards as determined by standard setters can vary in both toughness and vagueness. Our analysis provides implications for the adoption of International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Countries, such as the U.S., where auditor legal liability is significantly more onerous than the global norm are not likely to adopt ISAs, since these standards may not induce auditors to provide the optimal level of audit quality. Conversely, the adoption of ISA’s by countries, such as China, where the legal system makes the recovery of damages from auditors quite difficult, is not by itself likely to result in a high level of audit quality. Furthermore, our model suggests that auditor rotation can help improve audit quality, but only in certain circumstances.

Keywords: Auditing standards, legal regimes, international standards

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Simunic, Dan A. and Ye, Minlei and Zhang, Ping, The Joint Effects of Multiple Legal System Characteristics on Auditing Standards and Auditor Behavior (April 2015). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2281270, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2281270 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2281270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,205
RANK
236,690
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies