Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Choice of Royalty Rule to Cover Fixed Costs in Input Joint Ventures

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4332

22 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2013

Kenneth Fjell

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Øystein Foros

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Hans Jarle Kind

Norwegian School of Economics & Business Administration (NHH); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Economics

Date Written: July 18, 2013

Abstract

In a model where two competing downstream firms establish an input joint venture (JV), we analyze how different royalty rules for covering fixed costs affect channel profits. Under running royalties (regardless of whether based on predicted or actual output), the downstream firms’ perceived marginal costs are above the true marginal costs since fixed costs are incorporated. We find that tougher competition between the JV partners may actually increase channel profit under such a scheme. We also show that running royalties based on predicted output are outperformed by royalties based on actual output, but that lump-sum financing of the JV is preferable if the competitive pressure is weak.

Keywords: input joint ventures, competition, royalty rules

JEL Classification: L100

Suggested Citation:

Fjell, Kenneth and Foros, Øystein and Kind, Hans Jarle, On the Choice of Royalty Rule to Cover Fixed Costs in Input Joint Ventures (July 18, 2013). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4332, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2295381 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2295381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf , D E Sappington
The make-or-buy decision in the presence of a rival: Strategic outsourcing to a common supplier
Management Science , volume 54 , issue 10 , p. 1747 - 1758 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P N Bloom , G T Gundlach , J P Cannon
Slotting allowances and fees: Schools of thought and views of practicing managers
Journal of Marketing , volume 64 , p. 92 - 108 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Bo¤a , J Panzar
Bottleneck co-ownership as a regulatory alternative
Journal of Regulatory Economics , volume 41 , p. 201 - 215 Posted: 2012
M Bromwich , C Hong
Costs and regulation in the UK telecommunications industry
Management Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 165 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,495
RANK
906,046
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies