Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banks' Discretionary Use of Fair-Value Accounting, Capital Requirement Regulation, and Bank Lending

42 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2013 Last revised: 21 Sep 2017

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: September 15, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines banks' accounting choices between fair-value and historical-cost accounting when reported accounting information is used for capital requirement regulation. In choosing fair-value relative to historical-cost, banks must consider potential benefits of additional lending in good times against potential cost of a smaller lending or even insolvency in bad times. If the lending return is inelastic to aggregate lending, a higher capital requirement reduces fair-value accounting usage. However, if the lending return is elastic to aggregate lending, a higher capital requirement encourages the usage of fair-value accounting when the initial capital ratio is low. Our analysis also provides some policy implications. We find mandating a uniform fair-value accounting method is socially desirable when the capital requirement is extremely tight, and mandating a uniform historical-cost method is socially optimal when the capital requirement is extremely loose. When the capital requirement is intermediate, allowing discretion is socially optimal.

Keywords: banking, fair value, accounting, capital requirement, historical cost

JEL Classification: D7, D8

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Nan, Lin and Zhang, Gaoqing, Banks' Discretionary Use of Fair-Value Accounting, Capital Requirement Regulation, and Bank Lending (September 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2298184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2298184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Basel Committee
Basel III: A Global Regulatory Framework for More Resilient Banks and Banking Systems
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Posted: 2010
A Bleck
Risk-Insensitive Regulation Posted: 2016-05
Crossref
Alexander Bleck , Pingyang Gao , Chicago Booth RPS Submitter
Mark-to-Market, Loan Retention, and Loan Origination
Forthcoming at The Accounting Review Pages: 55 Posted: 18 Nov 2009 Last revised: 10 May 2023
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,856
RANK
266,546
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies