Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sorting Effects of Performance Pay

37 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2013

Maris Goldmanis

University of London, Royal Holloway College - Department of Economics

Korok Ray

Texas A&M University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 6, 2013

Abstract

Compensation not only provides incentives to an existing manager, but also affects the type of manager attracted to the firm. This paper examines the dual incentive and sorting effects of performance pay in a simple contracting model of endogenous participation. In general, sorting dampens optimal pay-performance sensitivity (PPS), as PPS beyond a nominal amount transfers unnecessary (information) rent to the manager. This helps explain why empirical estimates of PPS are much lower than predictions from models of moral hazard alone. The model also predicts that sorting under asymmetric information causes the firm to turn away more candidates than would be efficient; PPS increases in the cost of hiring the manager and in the manager's outside option, but decreases in output risk, information risk, and managerial risk-aversion; the firm becomes more selective in hiring as either the manager's outside option, the cost of hiring, risk-aversion, output risk, or information risk increases.

Keywords: International Accounting, GAAP, IFRS, FASB, IASB

JEL Classification: C70, D00, K12, G34

Suggested Citation:

Goldmanis, Maris and Ray, Korok, Sorting Effects of Performance Pay (August 6, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2307655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2307655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Proposed Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies
Federal Register , volume 74 Posted: 2009
C ; D Armstrong , ; Larcker , C.-L Su
Endogenous Selection and Moral Hazard in Executive Compensation Contracts Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Offering Stock Options to Gauge Managerial Talent
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 40 , p. 189 - 210 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Bagnoli , T Bergstrom
Log-concave Probability and its Applications
Economics Theory , volume 26 , p. 445 - 469 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,438
RANK
150,648
4 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Performance Evaluations and Efficient Sorting

By Korok Ray

The Retention Effect of Withholding Performance Information

By Korok Ray

Dual Purpose Measures

By Gerald A. Feltham, Raffi Indjejikian, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies