Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Power and Relative Performance Evaluation

AAA 2014 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

43 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2013 Last revised: 27 May 2016

Shane S. Dikolli

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Viktoria Diser

LMU Munich

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Date Written: May 1, 2016

Abstract

We model relative performance evaluation (RPE) when a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has the power to opportunistically influence the design of RPE by choosing the weight on an index-based peer group or by customizing the selection of peers comprising a peer group. A powerful CEO compares the benefits of reducing common risk affecting his compensation with the benefits of receiving a higher bonus by economizing on expected peer-group performance. The Board of Directors (BoD) is less likely to use RPE if a powerful CEO can influence RPE design. Our analytical model yields hypotheses predicting that powerful CEOs choose to reduce common risk only partially and that BoDs choose to not implement RPE if expected peer performance is sufficiently high. Our model has further empirical implications in (1) providing new interpretations of tests for detecting strong-form and weak-form RPE in the presence of powerful CEOs, and (2) suggesting a new empirical measure of CEO power with a focus on the delegation of RPE decision rights.

Keywords: Relative performance evaluation, Managerial power, Incentive compensation

JEL Classification: M41, M52, J33

Suggested Citation:

Dikolli, Shane and Diser, Viktoria and Hofmann, Christian and Pfeiffer, Thomas, CEO Power and Relative Performance Evaluation (May 1, 2016). AAA 2014 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2312650 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2312650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Shane Dikolli , John C. Heater , William J. Mayew , Mani Sethuraman
CFO co-option and CEO compensation
Forthcoming in Management Science Posted: 17 Aug 2016 Last revised: 10 Oct 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M A Abernethy , Y F Kuang , &amp; B Qin
The influence of CEO power on compensation contract design
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1306 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Adams , H Almeida , &amp; D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R K A A Aggarwal , Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: theory and evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,011
RANK
243,598
2 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies