Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management, Incentive Contracts and Private Information Acquisition

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2013

Derek Chan

University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Jennifer Gao

Harbin Institute of Technology Shenzhen Graduate School

Date Written: August 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper analyzes the optimal design of compensation contracts in the presence of earnings management incentives, and its interplay with investors’ information acquisition decisions. We consider a setting in which compensation contract is based on both accounting earnings and stock price when an agent engages in predictable, pernicious earnings management and stock price is endogenously determined in a Noisy Rational Expectations Equilibrium (NREE) that reflects both the public information from reported earnings and a costly, noisy signal privately acquired by investors. We show that an increase in the precision of the firm’s financial reporting system could reduce the informativeness of stock price and exacerbate the agency problem by inducing lower productive effort and higher earnings management, implying that the firm may not choose a more precise financial reporting system.

Keywords: Compensation contract, Earnings management, Private information acquisition

JEL Classification: D82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Derek K. and Gao, Jennifer, Earnings Management, Incentive Contracts and Private Information Acquisition (August 1, 2013). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2316018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
The effect of relative performance on earnings management: a game-theoretical approach
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 19 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
Earnings and price-based compensation contracts in the presence of discretionary trading and incomplete contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 121 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
The relation among capital markets, financial disclosure, production efficiency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,187
RANK
311,489
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies