Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On One Shortcoming of Group Incentives

30 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2013

Kirill E. Novoselov

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: September 1, 2013

Abstract

Productive tasks are often designed so as to make one agent's output depend on the contributions of others, in which case the agents work as a group. This paper shows that, even if organizing agents in a group has no effect on productivity, task interdependence increases the principal's expected payoff. It does, however, reduce the total expected surplus. The results hold because, when shirking by one team member requires cooperation from his colleagues, it is cheaper to prevent, but the principal's expected payoff is maximized when the productive efforts are distorted away from the second best. The paper discusses some implications of this inefficiency.

Keywords: group incentives, task assignment, task interdependence, efficiency loss

JEL Classification: D82, D86

Suggested Citation:

Novoselov, Kirill E., On One Shortcoming of Group Incentives (September 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2319172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2319172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
J T Addison , B T Hirsch
Union effects of productivity, profits, and growth: Has the long term arrived
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 105 Posted: 1989
Crossref
N J Allen , T D Hecht
The 'romance of teams': Toward an understanding of its psychological underpinnings
Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology , volume 77 , p. 439 - 461 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Armstrong , J.-C Rochet
Multi-dimensional screening: A user's guide
European Economic Review , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 959 - 979 Posted: 1999
S Baliga
Monitoring and collusion with "soft" information
Journal of Law, Economics and Organization , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 434 - 440 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,608
RANK
741,762
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Simple Contracts, Renegotiation Under Asymmetric Information, and the Hold-Up Problem

By Patrick W. Schmitz

Cadillac Contracts and Up-Front Payments: Efficient Investment Under Expectation Damages

By Aaron S. Edlin

Allocating Control in Agency Problems with Limited Liability and Sequential Hidden Actions

By Patrick W. Schmitz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies