Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggressive Reporting and Probabilistic Auditing in a Principles-Based Environment

42 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2013

Suzanne Bijkerk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)

Vladimir Karamychev

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Department of Economics; Tinbergen Institute; Tinbergen Institute Rotterdam

Otto H. Swank

Erasmus University Rotterdam - Department of Economics; Tinbergen Institute Rotterdam (TIR)

Date Written: September 5, 2013

Abstract

We analyze the reporting strategies of firms and the investigation strategies of auditors in an archetype principles-based financial reporting system. To this end, we add a verification stage to a standard cheap-talk game, and apply the resulting game to financial reporting. We show that for a principles-based system to work properly, firms should bear a sufficient share of the cost of a thorough investigation. Furthermore, we find that a principles-based system is a mixed blessing. On the one hand, it leads to a plausible investigation strategy of the auditor, in which "suspected" reports receive most attention. On the other hand, a principles-based system only indirectly weakens firms' incentives to report aggressively.

Keywords: Cheap Talk, Financial Reporting, Principles-based Regulation, Stochastic Auditing

JEL Classification: D82, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bijkerk, Suzanne and Karamychev, Vladimir and Swank, Otto H., Aggressive Reporting and Probabilistic Auditing in a Principles-Based Environment (September 5, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2321078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2321078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
P E Fischer , P C Stocken
Imperfect information and credible communication
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 119 - 134 Posted: 2001
Crossref
F Gigler
Self-enforcing voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 224 - 240 Posted: 1994
Crossref
K Hackenbrack , M W Nelson
Auditors' incentives and their application of financial accounting standards
The Accounting Review , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 1996
K Jamal , H.-T Tan
Joint effects of principles-based versus rulesbased standards and auditor type in constraining financial managers' aggressive reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1325 - 1346 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
618,599
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Behavioral Evidence on the Effects of Principles- and Rules-Based Standards

By Mark W. Nelson

Earnings Quality Under Rules- vs. Principles-Based Accounting Standards: A Test of the Skinner Hypothesis

By Erin Webster and Daniel B. Thornton

Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions

By Christopher P. Agoglia, Timothy Doupnik, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies