Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Direct and Indirect Risk-Taking Incentives of Inside Debt

61 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2013 Last revised: 16 Jul 2016

Stefano Colonnello

Ca Foscari University of Venice; Halle Institute for Economic Research

Giuliano Curatola

University of Siena - Department of Economics and Statistics; Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

Ngoc Giang Hoang

Utrecht University School of Economics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 14, 2016

Abstract

We develop a model of managerial compensation structure and asset risk choice. The model provides predictions about the relation between credit spreads and different compensation components. First, we show that credit spreads are decreasing in inside debt only if it is unsecured. Second, the relation between credit spreads and equity incentives varies depending on the features of inside debt. We show that credit spreads are increasing in equity incentives. This relation becomes stronger as the seniority of inside debt increases. Using a sample of U.S. public firms with traded credit default swap contracts, we provide evidence supportive of the model's predictions.

Keywords: Inside Debt, Credit Spreads, Risk-Taking

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Colonnello, Stefano and Curatola, Giuliano and Hoang, Ngoc Giang, Direct and Indirect Risk-Taking Incentives of Inside Debt (July 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2323635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2323635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
M Cristy
The bankrupt's guide to employee benefits: Terminating retirement plans in bankruptcy
Journal of Pension Benefits Posted: 2010
A Edmans , Q Liu
Inside debt
Review of Finance , volume 15 , p. 75 - 102 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Eberhard Feess , Ansgar Wohlschlegel
Mandatory Deferral of Banker Compensation and Misallocation of Risky Projects
Pages: 31 Posted: 29 Jul 2012 Last revised: 30 Jul 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Joseph Gerakos
CEO Pensions: Disclosure, Managerial Power, and Optimal Contracting
Pension Research Council Working Paper No. WP2007-5 Pages: 51 Posted: 24 Apr 2007 Last revised: 26 Mar 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,433
RANK
111,943
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies