Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Costs of Disclosure

NBER Working Paper No. w19420

46 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2013 Last revised: 26 Jul 2025

Alex Edmans

London Business School - Institute of Finance and Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Chong Huang

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 2013

Abstract

This paper models the effect of disclosure on real investment. We show that, even if the act of disclosure is costless, a high-disclosure policy can be costly. Some information ("soft") cannot be disclosed. Increased disclosure of "hard" information augments absolute information and reduces the cost of capital. However, by distorting the relative amounts of hard and soft information, increased disclosure induces the manager to improve hard information at the expense of soft, e.g. by cutting investment. Investment depends on asset pricing variables such as investors' liquidity shocks; disclosure depends (non-monotonically) on corporate finance variables such as growth opportunities and the manager's horizon. Even if a low disclosure policy is optimal to induce investment, the manager may be unable to commit to it. If hard information turns out to be good, he will disclose it regardless of the preannounced policy. Government intervention to cap disclosure can create value, in contrast to common calls to increase disclosure.

Suggested Citation:

Edmans, Alex and Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Huang, Chong, The Real Costs of Disclosure (September 2013). NBER Working Paper No. w19420, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2325794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Anat R Admati , Paul P ‡eiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Andres Almazan , Sanjay Banerji , Adolfo De Motta
Attracting Attention: Cheap Managerial Talk and Costly Market Monitoring
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 1399 - 1436 Posted: 2008
Stanley Baiman , Robert E Verrecchia
The Relation among Capital Markets, Financial Disclosure Production E¢ ciency, and Insider Trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Anne Beyer , Daniel A Cohen , Thomas Z Lys , Beverly R Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,551
RANK
22,412
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Real Costs of Disclosure

By Alex Edmans, Mirko Stanislav Heinle, ...

Limited Managerial Attention and Corporate Aging

By Claudio F. Loderer, René M. Stulz, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies