Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition for Talent Under Performance Manipulation: CEOs on Steroids

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Elsevier, vol. 64(1), pages 1-14.

61 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2013 Last revised: 21 Oct 2018

Ivan Marinovic

Graduate School of Business, Stanford University

Paul Povel

University of Houston - Department of Finance, C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2014

Abstract

We study how competition for talent affects CEO compensation, taking into consideration that CEO decisions and CEO skills or talent are not observable, and CEOs can manipulate performance as measured by outsiders. Firms compete by offering contracts that generate rents for the CEO. We derive the equilibrium compensation contract, and we describe how competition changes that contract and the outcome. Intuitively, competition increases realized CEO compensation. It also strengthens the incentive power of the contracts. While competition mitigates inefficiencies caused in its absence, it also generates inefficiencies of its own. Competition replaces a downward distortion by an upwards distortion (incentive power is excessively strong), and it switches the focus of equilibrium effort distortions from low-talent CEOs to high-talent CEOs. Competition leads to higher effort but also to more manipulation of measured performance. If the cost of manipulating performance is low, the distortions can outweigh those that are mitigated, and competition for talent may reduce the overall surplus. We discuss possible remedies, including regulatory limits to incentive compensation.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Competition for Talent, Optimal Contracts, Asymmetric Information, Performance Manipulation, Earnings Management, Regulation

JEL Classification: D82, D86, G38, H23, L51, M12

Suggested Citation:

Marinovic, Ivan and Povel, Paul, Competition for Talent Under Performance Manipulation: CEOs on Steroids (January 1, 2014). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Elsevier, vol. 64(1), pages 1-14., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2344453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2344453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Viral V. Acharya , Viral V. Acharya , Marc Gabarro , Paolo F. Volpin
Competition for Managers, Corporate Governance and Incentive Compensation
AFA 2012 Chicago Meetings Paper Pages: 46 Posted: 19 Mar 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Viral Acharya , Paolo Volpin
Corporate governance externalities
Review of Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Ana Albuquerque , Gus De Franco , Rodrigo Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation'
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2013
Crossref
Mark Armstrong , John Vickers
Competitive price discrimination
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 579 - 605 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Iván Marinovic , Paul Povel
Competition for talent under performance manipulation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 64 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Paul Povel , Günter Strobl
Lying to Speak the Truth: Selective Manipulation and Improved Information Transmission
60 Pages · Posted: 3 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 30 May 2023 · Downloads: 181
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,571
RANK
158,049
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies