Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Quality, Diversification and the Cost of Capital

23 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2013

Greg Clinch

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

Based on a stylized infinite-period and multi-asset model of a securities market, I discuss several aspects of the link between disclosure quality and cost of capital, with a particular focus on how diversification influences this link. I first show that because investors have finite horizons and thus face price risk, disclosure plays a role in determining ex ante cost of capital in such a setting, contrary to the result of Christensen et al. ((2010) Information and the cost of capital: An ex ante perspective. Accounting Review 83: 817-848). With respect to diversification, I highlight the role of three aspects of a ‘large economy’ that influence how disclosure quality affects cost of capital: (1) the number of firms across which risk is distributed; (2) the number of investors among whom this risk is shared; and (3) the number of information signals (disclosures) available to investors from which to extract information. Finally, I extend the model to include the effects of nonrational traders who follow a simple trading heuristic and show that this results in an additional disclosure-contingent factor in equilibrium price that does not diversify away under fairly general conditions.

Keywords: Cost of capital, disclosure quality, diversification

JEL Classification: G10, G14

Suggested Citation:

Clinch, Greg, Disclosure Quality, Diversification and the Cost of Capital (October 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2354777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2354777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
T &amp; P Artiach , Clarkson
Disclosure, conservatism and the cost of equity capital: A review of the foundation literature
Accounting and Finance , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 49 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C Barry , &amp; S Brown
Differential information and the small firm effect
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 13 , p. 283 - 294 Posted: 1984
Crossref
C Barry , &amp; S Brown
Differential information and security market equilibrium
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 20 , p. 407 - 422 Posted: 1985
Crossref
P Berger
Challenges and opportunities in disclosure research -A discussion of 'The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , p. 204 - 218 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,357
RANK
212,316
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Markets

By Philip Bond, Alex Edmans, ...

The Real Effects of Financial Shocks: Evidence from Exogenous Changes in Analyst Coverage

By François Derrien and Ambrus Kecskes

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies