Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure and the Cost of Capital

35 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2013

Greg Clinch

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Robert E. Verrecchia

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

We investigate the association between voluntary disclosure and the risk-related discount investors apply to price. First, we study the association between (endogenous) disclosure choice and the discount in price induced by changes in the underlying model parameters: this is akin to an empirical study that overlooks the role of endogenity. Second, we investigate the incremental effect of disclosure on the discount in price: this is akin to an empirical study that controls for the direct effect of exogenous factors on the discount in price. Finally, we examine the incremental effect of disclosure on the discount in price when changes in disclosure are not induced by changes in underlying exogenous parameters: this is akin to an empirical study that controls for the effect of exogenous factors on both the discount in price and disclosure, and focuses on the association between “unexplained disclosure” and the discount.

Keywords: Cost of capital, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Clinch, Greg and Verrecchia, Robert E., Voluntary Disclosure and the Cost of Capital (October 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2354801 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2354801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information ‡ows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C Botosan
Disclosure level and the cost of equity capital
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 1997
C Botosan , M Plumlee
A re-examination of disclosure level and the expected cost of equity capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 21 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Brown , S Hillegeist
How disclosure quality a¤ects the level of information asymmetry
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , p. 443 - 477 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
25 Citations
Sergio Gilotta
The Conflict between Disclosure in Securities Markets and the Firm's Need for Confidentiality: Theoretical Framework and Regulatory Analysis
50 Pages · Posted: 11 Mar 2012 · Downloads: 231
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John E. Core , Luzi Hail , Rodrigo S. Verdi
Mandatory Disclosure Quality, Inside Ownership, and Cost of Capital
48 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2014 · Last revised: 25 Oct 2014 · Downloads: 1,061
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mary Brooke Billings , Matthew C. Cedergren
Strategic Silence, Insider Selling and Litigation Risk
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 57 Pages · Posted: 12 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 10 Dec 2014 · Downloads: 404
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mary Brooke Billings , Matthew C. Cedergren
Strategic silence, insider selling and litigation risk
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 2-3 , p. 119 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,123
RANK
159,379
25 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies