Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resistance to Change

16 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2013

James Dow

London Business School - Institute of Finance and Accounting

Enrico C. Perotti

University of Amsterdam - Finance Group; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 19, 2013

Abstract

Established firms often fail to maintain leadership following disrup tive market shifts. We argue that such firms are more prone to internal resistance. A radical adjustment of assets affects the distribution of employee rents, creating winners and losers. Losers resist large changes when strong customer goodwill cushions the consequences. Partial adaptation may lead winners to depart to form new firms with no goodwill, but no internal resistance.

Keywords: Change

JEL Classification: D02, D23, L25

Suggested Citation:

Dow, James and Perotti, Enrico C., Resistance to Change (November 19, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2356936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2356936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Daron Acemoglu
Why Not a Political Coase Theorem? Social Con ‡ict, Commitment and Politics
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 31 , p. 620 - 652 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Daron Acemoglu , James A Robinson
Political Losers as a Barrier to Economic Development
Papers and Proceedings , volume 90 , p. 126 - 130 Posted: 2000-05
Crossref
Aghion Philippe , Jean Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Kenneth Arrow
Economic Welfare and the Allocation of Resources for Inventions
The Rate and Direction of Inventive Activity: Economic and Social Factors Posted: 1962
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Claudio Loderer , René Stulz , Urs Waelchli
Firm Rigidities and the Decline in Growth Opportunities
Management Science , volume 63 , issue 9 , p. 3000 Posted: 2017
Crossref
David Atkin , Azam Chaudhry , Shamyla Chaudry , Amit K. Khandelwal , Eric Verhoogen
Organizational Barriers to Technology Adoption: Evidence from Soccer-Ball Producers in Pakistan*
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 132 , issue 3 , p. 1101 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,369
RANK
91,652
2 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Relational Contracts and Organizational Capabilities

By Robert S. Gibbons and Rebecca M. Henderson

Inside Organizations: Pricing, Politics, and Path Dependence

By Robert S. Gibbons

Inside Organizations: Pricing, Politics, and Path Dependence

By Robert S. Gibbons

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies