Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading, Competition, and Real Activities Manipulation

33 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2013 Last revised: 9 Mar 2016

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Bjorn Jorgensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 3, 2016

Abstract

Corporate insiders, particularly managers, not only have access to their firms' private information, but also control over their firms' operational decisions. In this paper, we consider a setting where managers manipulate the firms' real activities in anticipation of subsequent insider trading opportunities. We find these managers choose production quantities that are strictly higher than the quantities absent insider trading. The overproduction leads to lower firm profits but higher consumer surplus. When we allow the managers to trade both in their own firms' and their rival firms' stocks, we find that the competition among insiders in the financial market drives down the expected insider trading profits and their incentives to distort production decisions. We then discuss the scenario of "substitute trading" when the managers only trade in their rival firms' shares, and show that the managers can earn some insider benefits without sacrificing their firms' profitability. We also explore the possibility of endogenizing the managers' ownership through compensation contracts.

Keywords: Insider trading, Kyle model, real activities manipulation, overproduction

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Jørgensen, Bjørn N, Insider Trading, Competition, and Real Activities Manipulation (March 3, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2358668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2358668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
L M Ausubel
Insider trading in a rational expectation economy
American Economic Review , volume 80 , p. 1022 - 1063 Posted: 1990
I Ayres , J Bankman
Substitutes for insider trading
Stanford Law Review , volume 54 , p. 235 - 94 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
Earnings and price-based compensation contracts in the presence of discretionary trading and incomplete contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 93 - 121 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
The relation among capital markets, …nancial disclosure, production e¢ ciency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,975
RANK
160,721
4 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies