Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentive Contracts, Market Risk, and Cost of Capital

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2013

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: December 2, 2013

Abstract

Should incentive contracts expose the agent to market-wide shocks? Counter-intuitively, I show that market risk cannot be filtered out from the compensation and managed independently by the agent. Under plausible risk preferences, the principal should offer a contract in which performance pay increases following a favorable market shock. In the aggregate, however, the effect of market risk on individual contracts diversifies away and the agency problem does not directly affect the cost of capital. The analysis suggests caution in interpreting changes in cost of capital in terms of the stewardship role of accounting information.

Keywords: agency, cost of capital, asset pricing, stewardship, principal-agent, theory

JEL Classification: D2, E3, G1, M1, M4.

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy, Incentive Contracts, Market Risk, and Cost of Capital (December 2, 2013). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2362474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2362474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J M Abowd , D S Kaplan
Executive Compensation: Six Questions that Need Answering
Journal of Economic Perspective , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 145 - 168 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Antle , And A Smith
An Empirical Investigation of the Relative Performance Evaluation of Corporate Executives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Feltham Christensen
Posted: 2005
Crossref
C S Armstrong , S Banerjee , And C Corona
Factor-Loading Uncertainty and Expected Returns
Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 158 - 207 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,076
RANK
248,977
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies