Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
I Spy with My Little Eye...A Banking Crisis -- Early Warnings and Incentive Schemes in Banks

37 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2013 Last revised: 6 Dec 2014

Hendrik Hakenes

University of Bonn - Economic Science Area

Friederike Schlegel

University of Bonn - Faculty of Law & Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 5, 2014

Abstract

The severity and depth of the recent financial crisis hit many by surprise. Despite warning signs, the financial system seems to have been unable to aggregate existing information. As the events of Fall 2008 showed, many investors were caught off guard by the large number of banks collapsing worldwide. But what triggers an early warning, and what are the incentives to implement such a trigger? We construct a theoretical model of a bank that is financed with debt and equity, and a bank manager monitoring the bank's loan portfolio. The manager must be incentivized to warn the board before a crisis. However, we show that the board may implement a contract with insufficient incentives to communicate a warning, as refinancing conditions deteriorate when lenders notice an upcoming crisis. We discuss policies to improve information efficiency and give conditions under which regulatory measures, such as capital and liquidity regulation, increase welfare.

Keywords: Banking crises, information propagation, information efficiency, incentives, compensation, regulation

JEL Classification: G01, G21, L22

Suggested Citation:

Hakenes, Hendrik and Schlegel, Friederike, I Spy with My Little Eye...A Banking Crisis -- Early Warnings and Incentive Schemes in Banks (December 5, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2368851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2368851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
P Aghion , P Bolton , And J Tirole
Exit Options in Corporate Finance: Liquidity vs. Incentives
Review of Finance , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 327 - 353 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J R Barro , R J Barro
Pay, Performance, and Turnover of Bank CEOs
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 448 - 481 Posted: 1990
Crossref
E Benmelech , E Kandel , And P Veronesi
Stock-Based Compensation and CEO (Dis)Incentives
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , issue 4 , p. 1769 - 1820 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,251
RANK
451,432
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies