Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Probability Distributions and the Form of Compensation Contracts

Forthcoming, Economic Theory Bulletin

10 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014 Last revised: 4 Jul 2014

Pierre Chaigneau

Queen's University; Queen’s University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: February 22, 2014

Abstract

We consider a standard principal-agent setting where the first-order approach to the effort choice problem applies. We decompose the effect of a change in the probability distribution of performances on the form of the optimal contract into three additive components. We also consider the specific cases of a linear likelihood ratio, a rightward or leftward translation of the likelihood ratio, and CRRA utility. The results shed light on the differences between the optimal contracts derived in the literature, notably depending on whether a linear likelihood ratio or a lognormally distributed performance measure is assumed.

Keywords: executive compensation, first-order approach, informativeness, likelihood ratio, performance measure, principal-agent model

JEL Classification: D80, D86, J33

Suggested Citation:

Chaigneau, Pierre, Changes in Probability Distributions and the Form of Compensation Contracts (February 22, 2014). Forthcoming, Economic Theory Bulletin, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2389433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2389433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
I Dittmann , E Maug
Lower salaries and no options? On the optimal structure of executive pay
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 303 - 343 Posted: 2007
Crossref
I Dittmann , E Maug , O Spalt
Sticks or carrots? Optimal CEO compensation when managers are loss averse
The economics of risk and time , volume 65 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S J Grossman , O D Hart
An analysis of the Principal-Agent problem
Econometrica , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 45 Posted: 1983
Crossref
B Holmstrom
Moral hazard and observability
Bell Journal of Economics , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 74 - 91 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,114
RANK
702,914
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies