Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agency Costs of Equity and Accounting Conservatism: A Real Options Approach

22 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2014 Last revised: 3 Mar 2014

Tan (Charlene) Lee

National Central University

Date Written: February 12, 2014

Abstract

This paper investigates how conservative accounting system can mitigate the agency problem between the manager and shareholders of a firm, which arises from information asymmetry. In this study I assume that the firm has a privileged right to engage in an irreversible discrete project, i.e., it possess a valuable option to delay investment.

Using standard real options arguments, I first show the manager tends to invest earlier than optimal, when she owns information advantage over shareholders of the firm. In other words, the firm incurs agency costs of equity because the manager tends to over-invest. I then demonstrate that the application of accounting conservatism will induce the manager to report her private information more truthfully, and thus reduce the agency costs of equity. In addition, the reduction on agency costs will be more profound when the cash-flows of the investment project are highly uncertain.

Keywords: Accounting conservatism; Agency costs of equity; Investment hurdle rates; Real options

JEL Classification: G31; G32

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Tan (Charlene), Agency Costs of Equity and Accounting Conservatism: A Real Options Approach (February 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2399329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2399329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
C Chen , Y Hu , K J Lin
Accounting Conservatism and Corporate Investment Decisions: Evidence from a Structural Assessment Posted: 2013
A Dixit
Investment and Hysteresis
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 132 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A Dixit , R S Pindyck
Investment under Uncertainty Posted: 1994
R Mcdonald
Real Options and Rules of Thumb in Capital Budgeting
Project Flexibility, Agency, and Competition Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
530
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,735
RANK
120,848
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies