Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of a Multi-Purpose Reporting System on CEO and CFO Incentives and Risk Preferences

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2014 Last revised: 19 Apr 2016

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Date Written: April 10, 2016

Abstract

This paper presents a model in which the CEO generates productive output while the CFO oversees a reporting system that provides information useful for monitoring, decision-making, and contracting, but is also subject to costly manipulation. Because the reporting system serves multiple roles, the CEO's compensation incentives and the quality of the reporting system can be substitutes or complements. When they are substitutes, the CEO's incentive compensation is positively related to performance metric risk, firm value can be increasing in the CFO's risk aversion, and high biasing costs can reduce the positive association between firm value and CFO risk aversion. Whether they are primarily substitutes or complements can depend on the speed of decreasing returns to scale in the production function. The potential value of CEO-CFO collusion in this setting is explored in an extension.

Keywords: Reporting, bias, CEO, CFO, risk aversion

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Henry L., Implications of a Multi-Purpose Reporting System on CEO and CFO Incentives and Risk Preferences (April 10, 2016). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2399690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2399690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Aier , J Comprix , M Gunlock , D Lee
The …nancial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Chris S. Armstrong , Alan D. Jagolinzer , David F. Larcker
Performance-Based Incentives for Internal Monitors
Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series No. 76 , Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 2052 Pages: 42 Posted: 16 Feb 2010 Last revised: 4 Apr 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Baiman , J Demski
Economically optimal performance evaluation and control systems
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , p. 184 - 220 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Henry L. Friedman , John S. Hughes , Beatrice Michaeli
A Rationale for Imperfect Reporting Standards
Management Science, forthcoming · 56 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2018 · Last revised: 22 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 379
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Henry L. Friedman , John S. Hughes , Beatrice Michaeli
A Rationale for Imperfect Reporting Standards
Management Science, forthcoming · 56 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 21 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 181
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,451
RANK
287,617
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies