Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality in Regulatory Regimes

53 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2014 Last revised: 20 Jun 2014

Fabian Kuehnhausen

Max Planck Institute for Innovation and Competition; Max Planck Institute for Innovation and Competition; Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Munich Graduate School of Economics (MGSE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 20, 2014

Abstract

In this paper, I evaluate the impact of regulatory interventions on the quality of auditing services. Because of the recent financial crisis the European Commission has come up with proposals to introduce a Single Market for Statutory Audits. Hereby, the European Commission wants to open the audit services market to cross-border competition, to standardize provided services and it wants to allow for voluntary quality certification in order to reduce the adverse effects from asymmetric information about audit quality in the market.

This paper investigates the impact of the EC proposals on social welfare and the well-functioning of the market. I set up a pair of signaling games to theoretically analyze the relationship between an auditor, a firm and a regulator. The analysis reveals that standardization of audit services is optimal if the costs for verifying quality are sufficiently low. On the other hand, certification leads to a separating equilibrium where only high-quality auditors certify. This regime maximizes social welfare whenever verification costs are large. The results are robust against a number of extensions.

Keywords: asymmetric information, audit services, EC regulation, certification, signaling, standardization

JEL Classification: D43, D60, G28, L15, L84

Suggested Citation:

Kuehnhausen, Fabian, Audit Quality in Regulatory Regimes (June 20, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2404903 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2404903
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
G A Akerlof
The Market for Lemons: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
M Causholli , W R Knechel , H Lin , D E M Sappington
Competitive Procurement of Auditing Services with Limited Information
European Accounting Review Posted: 2011
Crossref
P K Chaney , D C Jeter , P E Shaw
The Impact on the Market for Audit Services of Aggressive Competition by Auditors
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 22 , p. 487 - 516 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L E Deangelo
Auditor Size and Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,606
RANK
215,250
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies