Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Effects of Accounting Characteristics on Compensation Contracts and Organizational Ownership Decisions: Public or Private?

31 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2014 Last revised: 6 Feb 2023

Toshiaki Wakabayashi

Sophia University - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2023

Abstract

This study shows that characteristics of performance measures, such as precision and sensitivity, can affect decisions on ownership (private versus government-run) and compensation contracts (fixed-salary versus incentive contracts). This study applies a standard LEN model, relying on agency theory, to government agencies. Government agencies frequently use fixed-salary contracts. Thus, this study compares four types of compensation contracts and corporate form, namely, (i) government agencies with incentive contracts, (ii) government agencies with fixed-salary contracts, (iii) for-profit firms with incentive contracts, and (iv) for-profit firms with fixed-salary contracts and considers which type the principal should choose. This study contributes by offering an accounting perspective to the field of law and economics relating to mechanisms for privatization and non-profit conversion or to corporate ownership and governance. Further, it highlights how entities that set accounting standards should operate in terms of governmental and business accounting.

Keywords: government and non-profit accounting, agency theory, privatization, publicization

JEL Classification: D86,H83,M41

Suggested Citation:

Wakabayashi, Toshiaki, An Analysis of the Effects of Accounting Characteristics on Compensation Contracts and Organizational Ownership Decisions: Public or Private? (February 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2407491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2407491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Economics and Identity. The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
D R Banker , S M Datar
Sensitivity, Precision, and Linear Aggregation of Signals for Performance Evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
D R Banker , J M Patton
Analytical Agency Theory and Municipal Accounting: An Introduction and an Application
Research in Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting , volume 3 , p. 29 - 50 Posted: 1987
D R Banker , S M Datar , A Maindiratta
Unobservable Outcomes and Multiattribute Preferences in the Evaluation of Managerial Performance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 96 - 124 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,164
RANK
568,026
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies