Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tasks, Talents and Taxes

55 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2014

Laurence Ales

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Musab Kurnaz

University of North Carolina at Charlotte - The Belk College of Business Administration - Department of Economics

Christopher M. Sleet

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: April 8, 2014

Abstract

This paper considers the normative implications of technical change for tax policy design. A task-to-talent assignment model of the labor market is embedded into an optimal tax problem.

The impacts of technical change on wage growth across talents and the substitutability of talents across tasks emerge as key drivers of policy.

The sources of technical change are measured. Evidence of polarization in the demand for tasks and a twisting of the task-talent productivity function with low talents catching up in simple tasks and falling behind in more complex ones is found.

The optimal policy response is to reduce marginal income taxes at the bottom and middle of the income distribution. Transfers to the bottom of the income distribution should be reduced.

Keywords: Optimal Taxation, Technical Change, Wage distribution, Assignment

JEL Classification: E62, H21, J31

Suggested Citation:

Ales, Laurence and Kurnaz, Musab and Sleet, Christopher M., Tasks, Talents and Taxes (April 8, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2422522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2422522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
D Acemo ˘ Glu
Directed technical change
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 69 , issue 4 , p. 781 - 809 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Acemo ˘ Glu , D Autor
Skills, tasks and technologies: Implications for employment and earnings , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1171 Posted: 2011
Crossref
L Ales , M Kurnaz , C Sleet
Optimal taxation with publicly observable tasks Posted: 2013
D Autor , D Dorn
The growth of low-skill service jobs and the polarization of the us labor market
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 5 , p. 1553 - 1597 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,821
RANK
357,435
3 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies