Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider versus Outsider CEOs, Executive Compensation, and Accounting Manipulation

45 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2014 Last revised: 26 Feb 2016

Prasart Jongjaroenkamol

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 26, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the role of the financial reporting environment in selecting a new CEO from within versus outside the organization. We show that a CEO's ability to manipulate performance information renders it more difficult for the board to detect and replace poorly performing CEOs as well as aggravates incentive contracting, and these effects are stronger when the new leader is an outsider rather than an insider. The model generates several predictions. First, boards are more likely to recruit a CEO from the outside in firms in which performance measures are harder to manipulate. Second, CEOs recruited from the outside engage in greater accounting manipulation, receive steeper incentive pay, and obtain higher expected compensation (rents) than CEOs promoted from within. Third, outside CEOs have a shorter expected tenure relative to inside CEOs when performance measures are difficult to manipulate, and the opposite holds true when performance measures are easy to manipulate.

Keywords: Insider vs Outsider CEO, CEO Turnover, Compensation, Accounting Manipulation

Suggested Citation:

Jongjaroenkamol, Prasart and Laux, Volker, Insider versus Outsider CEOs, Executive Compensation, and Accounting Manipulation (February 26, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2426284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2426284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and Severance Pay in Optimal Governance Structures
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Armstrong , W Guay , J Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings Management and the Revelation Principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
A Arya , J Glover
Abandonment Options and Information System Design
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 8 , p. 29 - 45 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
590
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,674
RANK
84,001
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies