Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Budgeting and Compensation with Asymmetric Information and Moral Hazard

37 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2000

Antonio E. Bernardo

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Finance Area

Hongbin Cai

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Jiang Luo

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Finance

Date Written: July 17, 2000

Abstract

We consider optimal capital allocation and managerial compensation mechanisms for decentralized firms when division managers have an incentive to misrepresent project quality and to minimize privately costly but value-enhancing effort. We show that in the optimal mechanism firms always under invest in capital relative to a naive application of the net present value (NPV) rule. We make a number of novel cross-sectional predictions about the severity of the under investment problem and the composition of managerial compensation contracts. We also find that firms will optimally give greater performance-based pay (at the expense of fixed wages) to managers of higher quality projects to mitigate the incentive for managers to overstate project quality. Thus, managers may receive greater performance-based pay because they manage higher-quality projects, not that greater performance-based pay causes firm value to increase.

Suggested Citation:

Bernardo, Antonio E. and Cai, Hongbin and Luo, Jiang, Capital Budgeting and Compensation with Asymmetric Information and Moral Hazard (July 17, 2000). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=242690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.242690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1995
Crossref
E Berkovitch , R Israel
Why the NPV criterion does not maximize NPV. Unpublished working paper Posted: 1998
R H Gertner , D S Scharfstein , J C Stein
Internal versus external capital markets
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , p. 1211 - 1230 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S Grossman , O Hart
Corporate ¯nancial structure and managerial incentives , p. 107 - 137 Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,023
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,046
RANK
50,735
13 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Balanced Budget Rules and Public Deficits: Evidence from the U.S. States

By Henning Bohn and Robert P. Inman

Capital Budgeting and Delegation

By Milton Harris and Artur Raviv

Budget Referendums and Government Spending: Evidence from Swiss Cantons

By Lars P. Feld and John G. Matsusaka

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies