Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Quality and Endogenous Project Outcomes

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 2 May 2014 Last revised: 17 Jun 2018

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 12, 2018

Abstract

In this study, we show that when a firm needs external financing, information quality has real effects via financing contracts on the firm’s input to influence its operational outcome. Interestingly, we find that higher information quality decreases overall efficiency. Our analysis highlights the importance of considering the role of information quality in the presence of the firm’s input decision upon financing contracts. In particular, information quality has a feedforward effect on the firm’s real input decision via financing contracts, which in turn has a feedback effect on financing contracts and overall efficiency.

Keywords: Information Quality, Input upon Financing Contracts, Financing Needs

JEL Classification: M41, G32, M48, G21

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Mingcherng and Nan, Lin and Wen, Xiaoyan, Information Quality and Endogenous Project Outcomes (June 12, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2431418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2431418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital Budgeting, the Hold-Up Problem, and Information System Design
Management Science , volume 46 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Commitment Issues in Budgeting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 273 - 278 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The Interaction between Decision and Control Problems and the Value of Information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,839
RANK
735,901
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies