Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Gray is Good: Gray Markets and Market-Creating Investments

Production and Operations Management, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2446608

27 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2014

Romana L. Autrey

Willamette University - Atkinson Graduate School of Management

Francesco Bova

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

David Soberman

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; INSEAD

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 6, 2014

Abstract

Gray markets arise when an intermediary buys a product in a lower-priced, often emerging market and resells it to compete with the product’s original manufacturer in a higher-priced, more developed market. Evidence suggests that gray markets make the original manufacturer worse off globally by eroding profit margins in developed markets. Thus, it is interesting that many firms do not implement control systems to curb gray market activity. Our analysis suggests that one possible explanation lies at the intersection of two economic phenomena: firms investing to build emerging market demand, and investments conferring positive externalities (spillovers) on a rival’s demand. We find that gray markets amplify the incentives to invest in emerging markets, because investments increase both emerging market consumption and the gray market’s cost base. Moreover, when market-creating investments confer positive spillovers, each firm builds its own market more efficiently. We find that firms can be better off with gray markets when investments confer spillovers, provided the spillover effect is sufficiently large. These results provide a perspective on why firms might not implement control systems to prevent gray market distribution in sectors where investment spillovers are common (e.g., the technology sector) and, more broadly, why gray markets persist in the economy.

Keywords: gray markets, unauthorized distribution, emerging markets, investment spillovers, management control systems

JEL Classification: M40, M49, M31, D43, D49, C72

Suggested Citation:

Autrey, Romana L. and Bova, Francesco and Soberman, David, When Gray is Good: Gray Markets and Market-Creating Investments (May 6, 2014). Production and Operations Management, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2446608, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2446608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized …rms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The impact of manufacturing ‡exibility on management control system design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Ahmadi , B R Yang
Parallel imports: Challenges from unauthorized distribution channels
Marketing Science , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 279 - 294 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Antia , M Bergen , S Dutta , R Fisher
How does enforcement deter gray market incidence
Journal of Marketing , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 92 - 106 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,790
RANK
248,063
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies