Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Structure and Gray Markets

Marketing Science, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2446617

46 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2014

Romana L. Autrey

Willamette University - Atkinson Graduate School of Management

Francesco Bova

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

David Soberman

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; INSEAD

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 5, 2014

Abstract

Conventional wisdom suggests that when firms face a negative externality like gray marketing (i.e., the selling of branded goods outside of the manufacturer's authorized channels), an effective strategy to reduce the negative impact is to centralize decision-making (Varian 1992). Nevertheless, in industries with significant gray marketing, we observe many firms with decentralized decision-making. Our study assesses whether decentralized decision-making can be optimal when a manufacturer faces gray market distribution. We consider a market where a focal firm competes with an existing competitor that produces a differentiated product and a gray marketer that sources an identical product from a lower-priced foreign market. We find that decentralization is optimal under quantity-based competition, provided the gray market is relatively uncompetitive and the level of competitive intensity between the focal firm and competitor is high. Decentralization leads a firm to make aggressive production decisions which leads to lower prices, yet it also leads to higher market share for the firm compared to centralization. When the level of competitive intensity between a firm and its competitor is high, the gain in market share more than offsets the loss due to lower prices. As a result, the focal firm is better off decentralizing its operations independent of a) whether the competitor operates in the foreign market and b) the competitor's organizational structure. This finding contradicts the belief that centralized decision-making is always optimal when authorized manufacturers attempt to limit the negative impact of gray markets. The findings also provide insight to understand why firms might employ decentralized decision-making in industries where gray markets are active.

Keywords: Gray Markets, Diversion, Foreign Market Entry, Organizational Structure

JEL Classification: M30, M31, M40, M41, D40, D43

Suggested Citation:

Autrey, Romana L. and Bova, Francesco and Soberman, David, Organizational Structure and Gray Markets (June 5, 2014). Marketing Science, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2446617, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2446617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Reza Ahmadi , B. Rachel Yang
Parallel imports: Challenges from unauthorized distribution channels
Marketing Science , volume 19 , p. 279 - 294 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Kersi Antia , Mark Bergen , Shantanu Dutta , Robert Fisher
How does enforcement deter gray market incidence?
Journal of Marketing , volume 70 , p. 92 - 106 Posted: 2006-01
Crossref
K Arrow , T Harris , J Marschak
Optimal Inventory Policy
Econometrica , volume 19 , p. 250 - 272 Posted: 1951
Crossref
Anil Arya , Hans Frimor , Brian Mittendorf
Discretionary disclosure of proprietary information in a multisegment …rm
Management Science , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 645 - 658 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Foad Iravani , Hamed Mamani , Emisa Nategh
External Reference Pricing and Parallel Imports of Pharmaceuticals: A Policy Comparison
Production and Operations Management, Forthcoming · 48 Pages · Posted: 5 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 101
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,755
RANK
180,781
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies