Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Board Oversight, and CEO Turnover

Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2014 Last revised: 10 Sep 2014

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 9, 2014

Abstract

One of the primary roles of corporate boards is to control the processes by which top executives are assessed and if necessary replaced. CEO turnover cannot be viewed in isolation because it affects the behavior of the involved players and hence interacts with other organizational goals. This monograph seeks to synthesize recent research that analyzes these interactions. I focus on a number of recurring themes, including the implications of CEO assessment and replacement on optimal contracting, board monitoring, project selection, financial reporting, and CEO selection.

Suggested Citation:

Laux, Volker, Corporate Governance, Board Oversight, and CEO Turnover (September 9, 2014). Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2447404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Rajagopalan
The analysis in Section 6 shows that boards may prefer outsiders over insiders not despite but exactly because outsiders are more risky. Boards can exploit the risk associated with outside candidates because they have the option of replacing the new CEO at a future date if necessary. Thus, by hiring an outsider Posted: 2003
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards'
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey'
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
553
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,986
RANK
114,562
2 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies