Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meeting, Beating, Streaks and Bubbles

65 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2014

Paul E. Fischer

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department; University of Pennsylvania

Jared N. Jennings

Washington University in St. Louis

Mark T. Soliman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: June 16, 2014

Abstract

The literature in economics and finance document that asset bubbles can emerge and remain sustained for a variety of reasons. In this paper, we develop an analytical model to characterize two types of rational bubbles linked to accounting disclosures, drift bubbles and sensitivity bubbles. We conjecture that both types of bubbles are likely to do so when firms experience streaks of good news. We use our analytical model to generate a number of hypotheses that are expected to hold if drift and/or sensitivity bubbles arise when firms experience streaks of good news, which we proxy for using lengths of meet or beat streaks. In price level regressions, we provide evidence consistent with meet or beat streaks associated with both non-linear drift and non-linear sensitivity price bubbles, consistent with the predictions drawn from the model. We offer less compelling evidence consistent with the model predictions that the drift and sensitivity bubbles should accelerate as a firm continues a streak. We provide reasonable evidence consistent with the drift and sensitivity bubbles unwinding when a firm fails to continue a meet or beat streak. Finally, we find evidence that the industry-wide streak related bubble-like patterns are incremental to the firm-specific patterns we document.

Keywords: Earnings response; Earnings association; Meet or beat analyst forecasts; Stock market bubbles; earnings string

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Paul E. and Fischer, Paul E. and Jennings, Jared N. and Soliman, Mark T., Meeting, Beating, Streaks and Bubbles (June 16, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2451249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2451249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,308
RANK
260,398
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies