Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Risk Aversion on Optimal Bias in Incentive Contracts

26 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2014 Last revised: 10 Sep 2019

Francois Larmande

Université de Sherbrooke

Date Written: September 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper analyzes the impact of agents' risk aversion and other agency parameters on optimal bias in the performance measures used for incentive contracts. Prior research has shown that the limited liability of the agent results in a demand for accounting systems that are stringent compared to the unobservable true outcome. This paper shows that risk aversion mitigates this preference for stringent accounting systems. Specifically, in a principal-agent model where the principal can choose between two accounting systems (ASs) with different biases, the optimal choice depends on the ranking of the overall information content (OIC) of these ASs and on the agent's level of risk aversion. The more stringent AS is always optimal if it has a higher OIC. When the more lenient AS has a higher OIC, it is optimal for high levels of risk aversion, the more stringent AS remaining optimal for low levels of risk aversion. This paper also analyzes the impact of the extent of the agent's possible liability and of the strength of the agency conflict. The paper contributes to the literature by identifying the role of the OIC, of agents' risk aversion, and of other agency parameters in the choice of an optimal reporting bias when accounting information is primarily used for stewardship.

Keywords: Reporting bias, limited liability, risk aversion, accounting conservatism, principal-agent theory, lower of market or cost rule

JEL Classification: D82, D86, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Larmande, Francois, The Effect of Risk Aversion on Optimal Bias in Incentive Contracts (September 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2463424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2463424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Arya , J Glover
Performance measurement manipulation: cherry-picking what to correct
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 119 - 139 Posted: 2008
Ramji Balakrishnan , George Drymiotes , K Sivaramakrishnan
The Effects of Biasing Performance Measurement Systems on Incentives and Retention Decisions
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2018
Crossref
J Bertomeu , M Darrough , W Xue
Optimal Conservatism with Earnings Manipulation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 252 - 284 Posted: 2017
J Caskey , V Laux
Corporate governance, accounting conservatism, and manipulation
Management Science , volume 63 , issue 2 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Jeremy Bertomeu , Masako N. Darrough , Wenjie Xue
Optimal Conservatism with Earnings Manipulation
Contemporary Accounting Research (2017). https://doi.org/10.1111/1911-3846.12247 · 36 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2013 · Last revised: 5 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 1,014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,848
RANK
224,339
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies