Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Information and Inventory Concerns in Over-the-Counter Markets

33 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2014 Last revised: 20 Nov 2015

Julien Cujean

École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL)

Remy Praz

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 19, 2015

Abstract

We study how transparency, modeled as information about one's counterparty liquidity needs, affects the functioning of an over-the-counter market. In our model, investors hedge endowment risk by trading bilaterally in a search-and-matching environment. We construct a bargaining procedure that accommodates information asymmetry regarding investors' inventories. Both the trade size and the trade price are endogenously determined. Increased transparency improves the allocative efficiency of the market. However, it simultaneously increases inventory costs, and leads to a higher cross-sectional dispersion of transaction prices. For investors with large risk exposure, the increase of the inventory costs dominates the benefits of the market efficiency. We link the model's predictions to recent empirical findings regarding the effect of the TRACE reporting system on bond market liquidity.

Keywords: Over-the-Counter Markets, Asymmetric Information, Inventory Concerns

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G18, D47, D52, D61, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Cujean, Julien and Praz, Remy, Asymmetric Information and Inventory Concerns in Over-the-Counter Markets (November 19, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2464399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2464399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Amy K Edwards , Lawrence E Harris , Michael S Piwowar
Corporate bond market transaction costs and transparency
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 1421 - 1451 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Nicolae Gârleanu
Portfolio choice and pricing in illiquid markets
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 144 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Michael A Goldstein , Edith S Hotchkiss , Erik R Sirri
Transparency and liquidity: A controlled experiment on corporate bonds
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 235 - 273 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Richard C Green , Burton Hollifield , Norman Schürhoff
Financial Intermediation and the Costs of Trading in an Opaque Market
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 275 - 314 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,704
RANK
187,370
13 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies