Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discretionary Aggregation

Accounting Review, Forthcoming http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/accr-51434

Posted: 23 Jul 2014 Last revised: 1 Mar 2016

Michael Ebert

University of Paderborn

Dirk Simons

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Jack Douglas Stecher

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: February 24, 2016

Abstract

We study a disclosure decision for a firm's manager with many sources of private information. The presence of multiple numerical signals provides the manager with an opportunity to hide information via aggregation, presenting net amounts in order to show information in its best light. We show that this ability to aggregate fundamentally changes the nature of voluntary disclosure, due to the market's inability to verify that a report is free of strategic aggregation. We find that, in equilibrium, the manager fully discloses if and only if the manager's private information makes the firm look sufficiently weak. By separating bad news from good news, a disaggregate report informs the market of as much offsetting news as possible, revealing how close the news is to a neutral benchmark. The result is therefore pooling at the top and separation at the bottom, the opposite of what transpires with a single news source.

Keywords: Aggregation, Disclosure, Persuasion, Reporting Discretion, Segment Reporting, Sender-Receiver Games

JEL Classification: M41, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Ebert, Michael and Simons, Dirk and Stecher, Jack Douglas, Discretionary Aggregation (February 24, 2016). Accounting Review, Forthcoming http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/accr-51434, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2469212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2469212
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,934
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies