Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Transfer Pricing Methods & Management of Tax Risk

14 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2014

Alessio Rombolotti Axelrod

Independent

Date Written: July 23, 2014

Abstract

In this paper I derive a straightforward condition, which I call the Arm’s Length Dual Condition (ALD), for a controlled price to be, or not to be, arm’s length. A proof of the validity of this condition is carried out with respect to the Resale Price, the Cost Plus and the Transactional Net Margin pricing methods and it shows that contrary to general belief all transfer pricing methods should be treated as being two-sided, i.e. assessment of arm’s length compliance should be based on benchmarking both parties involved in the controlled transaction. The ALD Condition brings about a change in how tax administrations carry out tax audits and corporations manage their transfer pricing tax risk, the final paragraph explains the consequences of a new approach to risk management based on the ALD Condition.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Risk Management, Arm's Length Principle, Tax Risk, Benchmarking

JEL Classification: G34, K34

Suggested Citation:

Rombolotti Axelrod, Alessio, The Economics of Transfer Pricing Methods & Management of Tax Risk (July 23, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2470659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2470659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Alessio Rombolotti Axelrod
Estimating Income-Adjustment Risk in Transfer Pricing
Pages: 17 Posted: 23 Apr 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alessio Rombolotti
Resale Price and Cost-Plus Methods: The Expected Arm's Length Space of Coefficients
International Transfer Pricing Journal Posted: 2012-05
Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations Posted: 2010-07
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,653
RANK
163,413
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies