Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Under What Conditions Does the Manager Withhold Segment Information?

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2014 Last revised: 28 Jun 2021

Yutaro Murakami

Keio University

Atsushi Shiiba

Osaka University

Date Written: June 27, 2021

Abstract

This paper considers how a manager decides to disclose or withhold segment information in a capital market setting. In particular, we develop a multi-period model in which a manager in each period decides how to allocate her effort between two businesses. The profit earned in each segment is determined by the manager’s effort and ability as well as each segment’s market profitability and inherent uncertainty. In this setting, in contrast to the expectation of segment disclosure being withheld due to conflicts of interest between managers and shareholders, we identify the conditions under which the manager rationally withholds segment information and achieves higher social welfare. In a setting where the manager is concerned about the current stock price, disclosing more disaggregated information to the stock market does not necessarily lead to more efficient monitoring. The capital market values various segment earnings differently, and in response to this valuation, a rational manager may greatly alter her behavior, leading to inefficient outcomes.

Keywords: Segment Disclosure; Career Concerns; Capital Market; Social Welfare

JEL Classification: D86; L25; M41

Suggested Citation:

Murakami, Yutaro and Shiiba, Atsushi, Under What Conditions Does the Manager Withhold Segment Information? (June 27, 2021). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2482810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2482810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
V V Acharya , B M Lambrecht
A theory of income smoothing when insiders know more than outsiders
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 9 , p. 2534 - 2574 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P Aghion , J C Stein
Growth versus margins: Destabilizing consequences of giving the stock market what it wants
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 1025 - 1058 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Arya , J C Fellingham , D A Schroeder
Aggregation and measurement errors in performance evaluation
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 105 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The benefits of aggregate performance metrics in the presence of career concerns
Management Science , volume 57 , issue 8 , p. 1424 - 1437 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
RANK
286,433
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies