Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deferred compensation, managerial retirement, and the stewardship perspective of financial accounting

34 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2014 Last revised: 7 Feb 2020

Christoph Pelger

University of Passau; University of Innsbruck; NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Ulrich Schäfer

University of Vienna

Date Written: September 10, 2024

Abstract

Deferred compensation is often proposed as an instrument to prevent managerial myopia. However, empirical studies show that its practical use is limited when it comes to managerial retirement. We study the optimal design of accounting-based deferred compensation for retiring managers. While deferred compensation is useful in establishing long-term incentives, it causes contracting frictions in subsequent periods. Deferred bonuses of retiring managers imply inefficiently weak incentives for incoming managers. This down-scaling effect renders deferred compensation less useful in providing long-term incentives. We also find that the down-scaling effect has implications for the desirability of accounting timeliness, that is, the timely recognition of future cash flows in current accounting earnings, from a stewardship perspective. If managers' long-term actions are sufficiently important, higher timeliness can cause more myopic managerial incentives.

Keywords: accounting timeliness, deferred compensation, managerial myopia, managerial retirement, performance measurement, stewardship

JEL Classification: D86, M12, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pelger, Christoph and Schäfer, Ulrich, Deferred compensation, managerial retirement, and the stewardship perspective of financial accounting (September 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2482310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2482310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Fasc Aaa
Response to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's and the International Accounting Standards Board's joint discussion paper entitled Preliminary Views on Revenue Recognition in Contracts with Customers
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 689 - 702 Posted: 2010
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
S B Anderson , J L Brown , L Hodder , E Patrick , P E Hopkins
The effect of alternative accounting measurement bases on investors' assessments of managers' stewardship
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 46 , p. 100 - 114 Posted: 2015
G Baker , R Gibbons , K J Murphy
Subjective performance measures in optimal incentive contracts
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 84 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,818
RANK
315,603
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies