Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contractual Incentives and Career Concerns

AAA 2015 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting

24 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2014

Peter O. Christensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance

Hans Frimor

Aarhus University; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Business and Economics

Florin Sabac

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: August 18, 2014

Abstract

In a multi-period model of optimal contracting and career concerns, we show long-term contracting with renegotiation dominates short-term contracting if there is non-contractible information. If the non-contractible information is not effectively contractible through renegotiation of long-term contracts, the labor market may play an important role in providing incentives in a world of multiple information sources and several tasks.

Keywords: dynamic agency, renegotiation, career concerns, non-contractible information

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Peter Ove and Frimor, Hans and Frimor, Hans and Sabac, Florin, Contractual Incentives and Career Concerns (August 18, 2014). AAA 2015 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2482579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2482579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Offering stock options to gauge managerial talent
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 189 - 210 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R L Autrey , S S Dikolli , D P Newman
Career concerns and mandated disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 26 , p. 527 - 554 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P O Christensen , G A Feltham , C Hofmann , F Sabac
Timeliness, accuracy, and relevance in dynamic incentive contracts. Working paper Posted: 2003
P O Christensen , G A Feltham , F Sabac
Dynamic incentives and responsibility accounting: A comment
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , p. 423 - 436 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,993
RANK
375,436
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies