Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Dynamic Incentives

AAA 2015 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting

41 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2014 Last revised: 1 Apr 2015

Sunil Dutta

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Qintao Fan

University of Oregon, Lundquist School of Business

Date Written: November 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of earnings management on incentives and welfare in a two-period agency setting. Managerial performance measures are positively correlated because of a time-invariant productivity component that affects earnings in both periods. The firm and the manager learn about this permanent earnings component over time and cannot commit not to revise the contract terms in light of updated information. While learning over time reduces uncertainty, its strengthening effect on the second period incentive rate is oset by the need to mitigate earnings inflation. We find that when the uncertainty about permanent earnings is large enough, allowing some earnings management can enhance welfare because the efficiency gain from the manager's reduced risk exposure can outweigh the deadweight cost of earnings management. We also consider a career concern setting in which the permanent component of earnings relates to managerial ability. Contrary to Gibbons and Murphy (1992), we find that incentive rates and productive efforts can decline over the manager's tenure.

Keywords: Earnings Management; Renegotiation; Permanent Earnings; Career Concerns

Suggested Citation:

Dutta, Sunil and Fan, Qintao, Earnings Management and Dynamic Incentives (November 1, 2015). AAA 2015 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2482133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2482133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings Management and the Revelation Principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO Incentives and Earnings Management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Crossref
N Burns , S Kedia
The Impact of Performance-Based Compensation on Misreporting
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , p. 35 - 67 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P Christensen , G Feltham , F Sabac
A Contracting Perspective on Earnings Quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 265 - 294 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,855
RANK
222,024
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies