Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure and the Cost of Capital: A Survey of the Theoretical Literature

Routledge Companion to Accounting Theory, Forthcoming

Abacus, Forthcoming

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 15-16

35 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2014 Last revised: 8 Mar 2016

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Edwige Cheynel

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: September 24, 2014

Abstract

This article offers a survey of theoretical research on disclosure and the cost of capital. We summarize the current state of the literature and discuss the channels through which information affects the cost of capital. After giving an overview of asset pricing theory, we examine the rationale for an accounting risk factor or an ex-ante effect of information on the cost of capital. Then, we discuss the role of voluntary disclosure, heterogenous beliefs, investor base, liquidity shocks, earnings management and agency problems as determinants of the cost of capital. Linkages between productive decisions and the cost of capital, and their implication for investor welfare, are also examined.

Keywords: asset pricing, trading, markets, expected return, accounting

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G31, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy and Cheynel, Edwige, Disclosure and the Cost of Capital: A Survey of the Theoretical Literature (September 24, 2014). Routledge Companion to Accounting Theory, Forthcoming, Abacus, Forthcoming, Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 15-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2500861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2500861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Christopher S Armstrong , John E Core , Daniel J Taylor , Robert E Verrecchia
When does information asymmetry affect the cost of capital?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Christopher S Armstrong , Carlos Banerjee , Corona
Factor-loading uncertainty and expected returns
Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 158 - 207 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Arya , Jonathan C Anil , K Glover , Sivaramakrishnan
Interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
Anil Arya , Jonathan Glover , Brian Mittendorf , Ganapathi Narayanamoorthy
Unintended consequences of regulating disclosures: The case of regulation fair disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 243 - 252 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,073
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,523
RANK
47,381
9 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies