Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should a Multinational Firm Place Part of its Supply Chain in a Tax Haven?: Strategies to Enable International Tax Arbitrage

35 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2014

Masha Shunko

Foster School of Business, University of Washington

Hung Do

University of Vermont - School of Business Administration

Andy Tsay

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Date Written: September 28, 2014

Abstract

What motivates the geographic footprint of the supply chains that multinational firms (MNFs) deploy? Traditional prescriptive research in the operations and supply chain management literature tends to recommend locations primarily based on differentials in production costs and the ramifications of physical distance. The role of taxation has received much less attention.

MNFs that strategically position parts of their supply chains in low-tax locations can allocate the profits across the different pieces of the firm so as to improve post-tax profits. For the profit allocation to be defensible to tax authorities, the operations in tax havens must possess real decision authority and bear meaningful risks such as the consequences of uncertainty in market demand. Generally speaking, the greater the transfer of risk and control, the larger the allowable allocation of profit. These transfers may also create inefficiencies due to misalignment of business goals and attitudes towards risk. We model these tradeoffs in the context of placing in a low-tax region a subsidiary that oversees product distribution (as a Commissionaire, Limited-Risk Distributor, or Fully-Fledged Distributor). Our analysis ultimately informs the questions of motive for the MNF: whether and when to use these tax-aware supply chain strategies.

Keywords: Multinational Firms, Tax Efficient Supply Chain Management, Profit Allocation, Risk Allocation, Supply Chain Contracts

Suggested Citation:

Shunko, Masha and Do, Hung and Tsay, Andy, Should a Multinational Firm Place Part of its Supply Chain in a Tax Haven?: Strategies to Enable International Tax Arbitrage (September 28, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2502534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2502534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A ; Assassi , Kpmg Us
Role: Transfer Pricing Managing Director Posted: 2016
A Bakker
Transfer pricing and business restructurings: streamlining all the way. IBFD Posted: 2009
Elena Belavina
The Benefits of Decentralized Decision-Making in Supply Chains
INSEAD Working Paper No. 2012/79/TOM Pages: 33 Posted: 4 Sep 2012 Last revised: 14 Jan 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T Bergin
Insight: In Europe's tax race, it's the base, not the rate Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,334
RANK
162,079
3 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies