Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Shifting Using a Cost Sharing Arrangement

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2014 Last revised: 1 Dec 2018

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Richard C. Sansing

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: April 20, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates the use of a cost sharing arrangement (CSA) by a multinational corporation (MNC) with domestically developed intangible property (IP) to shift the income attributable to the IP to low-tax foreign jurisdictions. Using a strategic tax compliance model, we identify three major effects that determine whether an MNC will use a CSA to develop the IP rather than develop the IP domestically: an operating intangible effect, an undervaluation effect, and an enforcement effect. First, we find that the MNC is more likely to use a CSA to develop the IP when the MNC has valuable domestic operating intangibles, such as a global brand. Second, the MNC is more likely to use a CSA if the nature of the IP development project allows the MNC to understate the fair market value of the IP. Third, the MNC is less likely to use a CSA if the tax authority can cost-effectively challenge the position and impose retroactive revaluations of the IP. We also compare the effects of the rules in the U.S. to the OECD transfer pricing guidelines used in most other countries.

Keywords: intangible property; cost sharing arrangements; income shifting; transfer pricing; commensurate with income standard

JEL Classification: H25, D23

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Sansing, Richard C., Income Shifting Using a Cost Sharing Arrangement (April 20, 2018). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2516471 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2516471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
E Zakharenkova , Svetlana Patel
Исследование Возможности Внедрения в Российское Налоговое Законодательство Правил Налогообложения При Распределении Затрат (Study the Possibility of Introducing the Tax Rules in the Allocation of Costs to the Russian Tax Legislation)
86 Pages · Posted: 18 Apr 2016 · Last revised: 29 Aug 2016 · Downloads: 58
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Scott D. Dyreng , Kevin S. Markle
The Effect of Financial Constraints on Income Shifting by U.S. Multinationals
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 6 , p. 1601 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Rebecca Reineke , Katrin Weiskirchner-Merten
Transfer Pricing and Location of Intangibles - Spillover and Tax Avoidance through Proﬁt Shifting
Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.2308/JMAR-19-052, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2019-01 · Posted: 15 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 18 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sebastien Bradley , Leslie Robinson , Martin Ruf
The Impact of IP Box Regimes on the M&A Market
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 73 Pages · Posted: 3 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 19 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 285
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,540
RANK
96,304
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies