Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Earnings Quality: Theory and Evidence

The Accounting Review (Forthcoming)

45 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2014 Last revised: 18 Oct 2018

Anne Beyer

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Ilan Guttman

Leonard N. Stern School of Business, New York University; New York University - Stern Scholl of business

Ivan Marinovic

Graduate School of Business, Stanford University

Date Written: August 13, 2018

Abstract

We study a dynamic model of earnings quality and earnings management in which firms take into account long- and short-term considerations when reporting earnings. In addition to providing predictions about the time series properties of earnings quality and reporting bias, the model offers a distinction between two components of investor uncertainty: (i) fundamental economic uncertainty and (ii) information asymmetry between the manager and investors due to reporting or accounting distortions. We also structurally estimate the parameters of the model to empirically separate these two components of investor uncertainty. This allows us to address existing concerns about archival studies of earnings quality, such as the concerns raised by Dechow et al. (2010) and Dichev et al. (2013) that empirical archival research cannot satisfactorily distinguish managed earnings from fundamental or economic earnings. We find that: (i) our results strongly reject the null hypothesis of zero reporting noise; (ii) the ratio of the variance of the noise introduced by the reporting process to the variance of earnings shocks is on average 45%, suggesting that the noise added by the reporting process significantly contributes to investor uncertainty; (iii) however, from a valuation perspective, reporting noise plays a significantly lesser role due to the persistence of shocks to economic earnings; (iv) the investor uncertainty created by reporting noise about firms’ assets-in-place and future economic earnings is similar in magnitude; and (v) ignoring the possibility of reporting distortions would bias the estimates of variance and persistence of economic earnings.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Dynamics, Structural Estimation

JEL Classification: D82

Suggested Citation:

Beyer, Anne and Guttman, Ilan and Marinovic, Ivan, Earnings Management and Earnings Quality: Theory and Evidence (August 13, 2018). The Accounting Review (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2516538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2516538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Viral V Acharya , Ilan Peter Demarzo , Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 79 Posted: 2011-09
Crossref
W Albrecht , Larry L Steve , James C Lookabill , Mckeown
The TimeSeries Properties of Annual Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 226 - 244 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Ray Ball , Ross Watts
Some Time Series Properties of Accounting Income
The Journal of Finance , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 663 - 681 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Jan Barton , Paul J Simko
The Balance Sheet as an Earnings Management Constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,406
RANK
7,717
32 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies