Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bentham's Panopticon and Real Effects of Voluntary Disclosure

29 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2014

Michael Ebert

University of Paderborn

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Date Written: November 20, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines voluntary disclosure of nonproprietary information where the manager is uncertain about the market’s reaction to disclosure. In particular, we consider situations where a manager is uncertain about whether her decision to withhold private information is either directly observed or only considered possible by investors. We show that adding the possibility that investors identify deliberate non-disclosure increases voluntary disclosures by managers – a finding which is reminiscent of Bentham’s Panopticon. We show that voluntary disclosure increases in the probability that managers assign to the case of being identified as non-disclosers and that this result is the outcome of two opposing effects. Finally, we show that when the manager uses her private information for a publicly observable production decision she has ex ante incentives to make her non-disclosure decision identifiable. This counterintuitive result occurs because informed investors serve as a commitment device for managers to produce efficiently ex post.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, Information asymmetry, Information endowment

JEL Classification: M41, D82, C02

Suggested Citation:

Ebert, Michael and Schneider, Georg Thomas, Bentham's Panopticon and Real Effects of Voluntary Disclosure (November 20, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2528945 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2528945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
J Bentham
Panopticon; or The Inspection-House
The Works of Jeremy Bentham , volume 4 , p. 37 - 172 Posted: 1843
B J Bushee
The Role of the Business Press as an Information Intermediary
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C.-W Chen , C Pantzalis , J C Park
Press coverage and stock price deviation from fundamental value
The Journal of Financial Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 175 - 214 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Chen
Wisdom of Crowds: The Value of Stock Opinions Transmitted Through Social Media
The Review of Financial Studies (forthcoming). Available at SSRN Posted: 2013-12-08
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,792
RANK
424,948
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies