Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Error, Managerial Incentives, and Information Sharing

40 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2014

Naomi Rothenberg

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

This paper studies the effect of losses due to audit error on audit quality when the auditor’s report of earnings is used for managerial compensation and the auditor can learn about the firm’s productivity environment by observing the manager’s effort. If the auditor observes the manager’s effort, he can tailor the audit quality perfectly to the productivity state. However whether the audit quality, and thus compensation, increases or decreases relative to when the auditor is uninformed, depends on whether the losses due to legal liability are more or less than auditor’s loss of audit fees due to client or reputational loss. The increase or decrease in audit quality affects the manager’s marginal productivity, which affects his compensation. Overall, the principal prefers the auditor to observe the manager’s effort when the losses due to legal liability are more significant than the loss of audit fees due to client loss and the incentive problem is less significant, or when losses due to legal liability are less significant and the incentive problem is more significant.

Keywords: audit error, asymmetric information, signaling, managerial compensation

JEL Classification: M41, M42, D82, J33

Suggested Citation:

Rothenberg, Naomi, Audit Error, Managerial Incentives, and Information Sharing (December 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2532365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R Antle
The Auditor As an Economic Agent
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 503 - 527 Posted: 1982
Crossref
R Antle , J And , Demski
Contracting Frictions, Regulation, and the Structure of CPA Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1991
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover
Auditor Independence Revisited
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 188 - 198 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Audit Regulator Stresses Skepticism , volume 27 Posted: 2013-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,383
RANK
467,197
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies