Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecast Accuracy and Consistent Preferences for the Timing of Information Arrival

52 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2014 Last revised: 11 Dec 2018

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Naomi Rothenberg

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 10, 2018

Abstract

We study a principal’s choice of whether to produce an imperfect forecast about a firm’s outcome either before or after an agent’s effort choice. The early forecast affects the agent’s effort choice, which means the forecast can also be used to infer information about the effect of the agent’s effort on outcome. The late forecast is more accurate because, by working hard, the agent also learns about productivity, implying that the late forecast has an additional performance measurement role. With verifiable information, the principal prefers a late forecast when the agent’s effect on the accuracy of the forecast is either large or small. The agent has consistent preferences when his effect on the accuracy of the late forecast is not too large. With unverifiable information, the agent’s information rents imply that the principal cannot use either forecast as a performance measure. Thus, the accuracy of the late forecast has no effect on the principal’s preference. However, if the accuracy of the early forecast is low and its decision-making function is diminished, the principal prefers a late signal.

Keywords: principal-agent theory, timing, accuracy, recognition

JEL Classification: M41, D82, L20, D80

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Christian and Rothenberg, Naomi, Forecast Accuracy and Consistent Preferences for the Timing of Information Arrival (December 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2533490 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2533490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Arya , J Glover , B Mittendorf , L Ye
On the use of customized versus standardized performance measures
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 21 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Baiman , K Sivaramakrishnan
The Value of Private Pre-Decision Information in a Principal-Agent Context. The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 747 - 766 Posted: 1991
D Ballou , H Pazer
Designing Information Systems to Optimize the Accuracy-Timeliness Tradeoff
Information Systems Research , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 72 Posted: 1995
Crossref
J Christensen
Communication in Agencies
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 661 - 674 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Christoph Pelger , Ulrich Schäfer
Deferred compensation, managerial retirement, and the stewardship perspective of financial accounting
34 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2014 · Last revised: 10 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 221
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lin Nan , Rahul Menon
Sooner or Later? A Study of Report Timing
38 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 16 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 102
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,667
RANK
420,501
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies