Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enforcement and Managers’ Collective Preference Toward Mandatory Disclosure

37 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2014 Last revised: 19 Jan 2016

Benedikt Franke

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Li Zhang

University of Mannheim - Department of Business Administration and Accounting

Date Written: January 18, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of enforcement on managers' demand for mandatory disclosure. In the model, managers determine a disclosure rule by majority decision. The rule is binding for all firms and subject to a given enforcement system. In equilibrium, under moderate enforcement, the majority of managers prefers to abstain from disclosure in order to pool with firms of higher quality. The resulting equilibrium standard maximizes the non-disclosure pooling price. However, the equilibrium rule requires disclosure from more than half of all firms. Therefore, imperfect enforcement provides incentives for managers to demand more disclosure from the community although it is potentially harmful to themselves. Our findings are not affected by adding the possibility of voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: Disclosure regulation, Enforcement, Mandatory disclosure, Voluntary disclosure, Collective preference

JEL Classification: D70, D72, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Franke, Benedikt and Zhang, Li, Enforcement and Managers’ Collective Preference Toward Mandatory Disclosure (January 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2534300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Ball , A Robin , G Sadka
Is financial reporting shaped by equity markets or by debt markets? An international study of timeliness and conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M E Barth , D Israeli
Disentangling mandatory IFRS reporting and changes in enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 178 - 188 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,858
RANK
411,549
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies