Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Not All Firms Engage in Tax Avoidance?

FAccT Center Working Paper Nr. 19/2014

48 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2014 Last revised: 1 Jun 2016

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Anna Rohlfing-Bastian

Goethe University Frankfurt

Kai Sandner

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Date Written: May 31, 2016

Abstract

Empirical evidence suggests that there is substantial cross-firm variation in the extent of tax avoidance. However, this variation is not well understood. This paper provides a theoretical background for testing, and thus explaining, cross-firm differences in tax avoidance. We develop a formal model with two agents to analyze the incentives that lead firms to engage in tax avoidance. The tax avoidance decision is a function of moral hazard, tax-planning costs, and the potential to increase earnings. If the potential to increase earnings is low, the tax-planning decision is determined by moral-hazard problems. In contrast, when this potential is high, the tax-planning decision is mainly driven by tax-planning costs, such as reputational and political costs. One implication of our model is that moral hazard can (partly) explain why some firms do not engage in tax avoidance: Severe problems of moral hazard make tax avoidance less likely. Our model can be applied to test differences in tax avoidance between different types of firms.

Keywords: moral hazard, tax avoidance, tax planning

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jacob, Martin and Rohlfing-Bastian, Anna and Sandner, Kai, Why Do Not All Firms Engage in Tax Avoidance? (May 31, 2016). FAccT Center Working Paper Nr. 19/2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2536268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2536268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
J S Ang , R A Cole , J Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J H Astrachan , S B Klein , K X Smyrnios
The F-PEC scale of family influence: A proposal for solving the family business definition problem
Family Business Review , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 58 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Chelsea Rae Austin , Ryan J. Wilson
Are Reputational Costs a Determinant of Tax Avoidance?
2013 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting: Tax Avoidance in an International Setting Posted: 14 Feb 2013 Last revised: 2 Nov 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
694
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,053
RANK
85,579
4 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies