Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opportunistic Disclosure in the Inter-Organizational Relationships

Discussion Papers on Business and Economics, University of Southern Denmark, 21/2014

AAA 2016 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

36 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2014 Last revised: 17 Aug 2015

Grete Oll

Department of Business and Economics, University of Southern Denmark

Date Written: August 17, 2015

Abstract

A contract governs a trade between a buyer and a supplier. This contract specifies: (i) a cost reimbursement and (ii) a profit sharing arrangement of the inter-organizational relationship. We examine, the role the accounting system choice has on the efficiency of the IOR when the supplier can disclose accounting information opportunistically.

The supplier's opportunism is rooted in his superior knowledge about the production and thus cost function. The supplier can manages the rate that is used for allocating overhead costs to the reimbursed product. Two methods of allocation rate management are available, leading to two distinct inefficiencies. First, the supplier can use some input factors in excess (Real Cost Management). Second, the supplier can influence the trade quantity (Real Activity Management).

This paper finds that even with opportunistic disclosure, the total profit of the relationship exceeds the profit under the arm's-length relationship. With a traditional accounting system, the supplier engages in Real Cost Management if the total overhead cost is high compared to the total direct labor cost. With an Activity-Based Accounting system, the supplier engages in Real Cost Management when the overhead cost of the traded product is small compared to the overhead cost of other products. Therefore the choice of accounting system can have a profound impact on the efficiency of an IOR.

This paper further show that the supplier engage in Real Activity Management regardless of the accounting system in place. However, the size and the direction of the quantity distortion depend on the accounting system. This further strengthens the conclusion, that the choice of accounting system affects the efficiency of the IOR, because it affects the supplier opportunism despite the control system (the contract) in place.

Keywords: Management accounting and control, inter-organizational relationships, cost reimbursement, profit-sharing, accounting system choice, private disclosure

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Oll, Grete, Opportunistic Disclosure in the Inter-Organizational Relationships (August 17, 2015). Discussion Papers on Business and Economics, University of Southern Denmark, 21/2014, AAA 2016 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2540067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2540067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
P Aghion , M Dewatripont , P Rey
Renegotiation design with unverifiable information
Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 282 Posted: 1994
Crossref
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of political economy , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
H Agndal , U Nilsson
Supply chain decision-making supported by an open books policy
International Journal of Production Economics , volume 116 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 167 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Agndal , U Nilsson
Interorganizational cost management in the exchange process
Management Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 85 - 101 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,395
RANK
467,197
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies