Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Synergy between Accounting Disclosures and Forward-Looking Information in Stock Prices

28 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2015

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: January 24, 2015

Abstract

It is often noted that accounting information, while faithfully estimating current profitability, fails to reflect forward-looking information about new ventures. Stock prices, however, reflect the prevailing sentiment about both current and future activities. As a result, though accounting is viewed as an important information source, stock price reactions are the primary gauge of how new technologies are expected to fare. With this in mind, we develop a model of accounting disclosures when market prices serve as a useful tool to inform the use of emerging technologies. We demonstrate that the information in accounting reports about current activities can indeed prove useful in improving decisions about new activities. In addition, we also demonstrate a synergy between accounting reports and market prices in guiding strategies – the more the forward-looking information that can potentially be gleaned from price, the more vital accounting information about current activities proves.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Mittendorf, Brian and Ramanan, Ram, Synergy between Accounting Disclosures and Forward-Looking Information in Stock Prices (January 24, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2555034 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2555034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Amershi , S Sunder
Failure of stock prices to discipline managers in a rational expectations economy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 177 - 95 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Q Chen , I Goldstein , W Jiang
Price informativeness and investment sensitivity to stock price
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 619 - 650 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Dow , G Gorton
Stock market e¢ ciency and economic e¢ ciency: Is there a connection
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 1087 - 129 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R A Dye , S Sridhar
Resource allocation e¤ects of price reactions to disclosures
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 19 , p. 385 - 410 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
791
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,253
RANK
72,133
6 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies