Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Liquidation of a Limited Liability Firm

43 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2015 Last revised: 24 Feb 2015

Jamie Alcock

University of Oxford

James Peter Brotchie

University of Queensland - Business School

Stephen Gray

University of Queensland - Business School; Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: February 4, 2015

Abstract

The decision of whether a firm should voluntarily liquidate, rather than continue trading, is a function of many parameters including uncertain future earnings, asset depreciation, and the firm's cost-of-debt. We develop an equity valuation model derived from the fundamental accounting equation that treats equity as an Asian-style call option on net earnings. Using this model we identify the firm's optimal voluntary liquidation rule and calculate this rule's sensitivity to key accounting variables. While expected rates of EBITDA growth, cost-of-debt and accounting depreciation are all important variables, we find that the volatility of EBITDA yield is the dominant determinant of the optimal voluntary liquidation rule. Interestingly, we find that firms holding assets with low liquidation costs should wind-up earlier. Our model predicts many commonly observed empirical voluntary liquidation behaviours and also predicts situations where managers interests are misaligned with those of equityholders.

Keywords: Voluntary liquidation, stochastic earnings model, American-Asian option

JEL Classification: G13, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Alcock, Jamie and Brotchie, James Peter and Gray, Stephen, Strategic Liquidation of a Limited Liability Firm (February 4, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2560260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2560260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
E Agliardi , R Agliardi
Progressive taxation and corporate liquidation policy
Economic Modelling , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 532 - 541 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Y A¨ıta¨ıt-Sahalia
Maximum likelihood estimation of discretely sampled diffusions: A closedform approximation approach
Econometrica , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 223 - 262 Posted: 2002
J Alcock , F Finn , K Tan
The determinants of debt maturity in Australian firms
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 313 - 341 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,922
RANK
413,842
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies