Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hold or Sell? How Capital Gains Taxation Affects Holding Decisions

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015-06

45 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2015 Last revised: 16 Mar 2016

Annika Hegemann

University of Paderborn

Angela Kunoth

University of Cologne - Institute of Mathematics

Kristina Rupp

University of Paderborn

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Investments with exit flexibility require decisions regarding both the Investment and holding period. Because selling an investment often leads to taxable capital gains, which crucially depend on the duration of an investment, we investigate the impact of capital gains taxation on exit timing under different tax systems. We observed that capital gains taxation delays exit decisions but loses its decision relevance for very long holdings. Often the optimal exit time, which indicates the maximal present value of future cashflows, cannot be determined analytically. However, we identify the breakeven exit time that guarantees present values exceeding those of an immediate sale. While, after-taxes, an immediate sale is often optimal, long holding periods might also be attractive for investors depending on the degree of income and corporate tax integration. A classic corporate tax system often indicates holdings over more than 100 periods. By contrast, a shareholder relief system indicates the earliest breakeven exit time and thus the highest level of exit timing flexibility. Surprisingly, high retention rates are likely to accelerate sales under a classic corporate system. Additionally, the worst exit time, which should be avoided by investors, differs tremendously across tax systems. For an integrated tax system with full imputation, the worst time is reached earlier than under partial or non-integrated systems. These results could help to predict investors’ behavior regarding changes in capital gains taxation and thus are of interest for both investors and tax policymakers. Furthermore, the results emphasize the need to control for the underlying tax system in cross-country empirical studies.

Keywords: Capital Gains Taxation, Holding Period, Exit Flexibility, Investment Decisions, Timing Decisions

JEL Classification: H20, H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Hegemann, Annika and Kunoth, Angela and Rupp, Kristina and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Hold or Sell? How Capital Gains Taxation Affects Holding Decisions (2015). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2563524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2563524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Lakshman Alles , Louis Murray
Investment performance and holding periods: An investigation of the major UK asset classes
Journal of Asset Management , volume 10 , p. 280 - 292 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach
Capital Gains Taxation and Tax Reform
National Tax Journal , volume 42 , p. 391 - 401 Posted: 1989
Retrospective Capital Gains Taxation
The American Economic Review , volume 81 , p. 167 - 178 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Benjamin C Ayers , Craig E Lefanowicz , John R Robinson
Shareholder Taxes in Acquisition Premiums: The Effect of Capital Gains Taxation
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 2783 - 2801 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,525
RANK
225,902
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies