Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and Incentives: Intertemporal Considerations

59 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2015

Jonathan C. Glover

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Haijin Lin

University of Houston

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 9, 2015

Abstract

We study the intertemporal properties of accounting conservatism with a focus on managerial incentives. In our main model, conservatism results in smaller expected payouts to the manager (agent) in early periods and larger expected payouts in later periods. Conservatism shifts (ambiguous) evidence that might be used to recognize good performance in early periods to later periods. In later periods, good performance is less informative, since good news might mean good current period performance and might also mean good prior period performance whose recognition was delayed. Because of the intertemporal shift in the information content of performance measures, incentives provided in future periods can spillback to early periods, making conservatism preferred by the principal (shareholders). We also study an extension in which the principal learns about the firm over time. In the learning model, conservatism is optimal because it reduces the expected payment in the first period when providing incentive is more difficult than it is in the second period. In a final extension, we study overlapping projects that give rise to a multi-task setting. In the multi-task setting, unbiased accounting is preferred to a maximally biased one (conservative or aggressive) when bias introduces so much measurement heterogeneity that one of the otherwise identical projects becomes a significant “bottleneck.” When the projects are productively heterogeneous and one of the projects would be a bottleneck without bias, conservative bias can make the two projects more similar from a measurement perspective, eliminating the bottleneck.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, multi-period incentives, multi-task incentives, incentive spillback

JEL Classification: C72, D80, M40

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Jonathan C. and Lin, Haijin, Accounting Conservatism and Incentives: Intertemporal Considerations (February 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2563027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2563027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R Antle , R Lambert
Accounting loss functions and induced preferences for conservatism
Economic Analysis of Information and Contracts: Essays in Honor of John. E. Butterworth Posted: 1988
Crossref
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Conservative accounting choices
Management science , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Basu
Conservatism and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,201
RANK
88,804
5 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies