Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Performance Reward, Tax Compliance and Enforcement

27 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2015

Christos Kotsogiannis

University of Exeter

Konstantinos Serfes

Drexel University

Date Written: February 24, 2015

Abstract

This paper incorporates the incentives of tax inspectors into an equilibrium model of tax compliance and enforcement when the taxpayers' true income is private information (adverse selection) and the effort of tax inspectors to verify reported income is unobservable (moral hazard). It characterizes the optimal remuneration for tax inspectors, which is a function of discovered tax evasion, paying particular attention to the determinants of the power of incentives and the curvature of the optimal reward scheme. It is shown that the structure of the optimal reward is increasing, and in general non-linear, in the magnitude of discovered tax evasion. The equilibrium characterized has the features that: taxpayers with higher true income under report less and tax inspectors' auditing effort, and hence the probability of detecting tax non-compliance, decreases with reported income.

Suggested Citation:

Kotsogiannis, Christos and Serfes, Konstantinos, Optimal Performance Reward, Tax Compliance and Enforcement (February 24, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2569383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2569383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Andreoni , B Erard , J Feinstein
Tax compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
T Besley , J Mclaren
Taxes and bribery: the role of wage incentives
Economic Journal , volume 103 , p. 119 - 141 Posted: 1993
Crossref
G Birkhoff , G Rota
Ordinary Differential Equations Posted: 1989
Load more
1 Citations
Christos Kotsogiannis , Konstantinos Serfes
Optimal performance reward, tax compliance and enforcement
Economic Theory Bulletin , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 325 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,721
RANK
502,079
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies