Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Reporting

Journal of Financial Reporting, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2015 Last revised: 5 Sep 2015

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Robert E. Verrecchia

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: September 4, 2015

Abstract

We extend the CAPM to a setting where a firm reports earnings prior to selling shares to investors. We show that an entrepreneur, as representative of a firm's initial owners, will choose to report earnings that asymmetrically reflect future cash flow. In modeling the entrepreneur's reporting choice, we deliberately abstract away from the stewardship role of accounting. In our model, the sole purpose of reported earnings is to facilitate valuation by the firm's equity investors. Nevertheless, we show that a firm's earnings will reflect future cash flow to a greater (lesser) extent in bad states (good states) –– when that cash flow is anticipated to be low (high). Importantly, we also show that the asymmetry in reporting generates asymmetry in the firm's systematic risk. When a firm's earnings reflect future cash flow to a greater extent in bad states, the firm's covariance with the market portfolio will be lower in bad states.

Keywords: asymmetric reporting; reporting precision; the CAPM; Beta; systematic risk; cost of capital

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14, G31

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Taylor, Daniel and Verrecchia, Robert E., Asymmetric Reporting (September 4, 2015). Journal of Financial Reporting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2575906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2575906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder con ‡icts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Armstrong , W Guay , J Weber
The role of information and …nancial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , G Sadka
Is …nancial reporting shaped by equity markets or by debt markets? An international study of timeliness and conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,155
RANK
154,735
11 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies