Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why More Forward-Looking Accounting Standards Can Reduce Financial Reporting Quality

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2015

Ralf Ewert

University of Graz - Institute of Accounting and Auditing

Alfred Wagenhofer

University of Graz

Date Written: April 19, 2015

Abstract

A premise of standard setters and of much empirical research is that improving the quality of accounting standards and their implementation increases information in capital markets. This paper challenges this premise and shows that there are situations in which “better”, i.e., more forward-looking, accounting standards reduce the information content of financial reports. The reason is that a forward-looking accounting standard affects the smoothness of reported earnings, which can conflict with the manager’s smoothing incentive and her willingness to incorporate private information in the financial report. Although the manager could eliminate the effect by earnings management, it is too costly to do so. As a consequence, the capital market’s ability to infer the financial and non-financial information in reported earnings declines. This finding should increase the awareness that an “improvement” in accounting standards, without considering incentives and other information residing in firms, can adversely affect the quality of financial reporting.

Keywords: Accounting standards, information content of financial reports, earnings quality, earnings management, accounting smoothing.

JEL Classification: D80, G12, G14, M41, M43.

Suggested Citation:

Ewert, Ralf and Wagenhofer, Alfred, Why More Forward-Looking Accounting Standards Can Reduce Financial Reporting Quality (April 19, 2015). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2596182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Anne Beyer , Ilan Guttman , Ivan Marinovic
Earnings Management and Earnings Quality: Theory and Evidence
The Accounting Review (Forthcoming) Pages: 45 Posted: 31 Oct 2014 Last revised: 18 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Christensen , H Frimor
Fair Value, Accounting Aggregation and Multiple Sources of Information
Essays in Accounting Theory in Honour of Joel S. Demski , p. 35 - 51 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K Cho , D M Kreps
Signaling Games and Stable Equilibria
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 102 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 221 Posted: 1987
Crossref
De Jong , A Mertens , G Van Der Poel , M Van Dijk , R
How Does Earnings Management Influence Investors' Perceptions of Firm Value? Survey Evidence from Financial Analysts. Working paper, Erasmus University Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,706
RANK
182,965
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies