Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and its Increasing Degree in the Infinite Horizon

40 Pages Posted: 21 May 2015

Isao Nakano

Kobe University - Research Institute for Economics & Business Administration

Date Written: May 21, 2015

Abstract

As reported in some literature, the accounting conservatism is continuously growing larger in degree (Basu, 1997; Bandyopadhyay et al., 2010). But no theoretical substantiation has been made on this empirical finding. I will make such an attempt, and prove that the degree of accounting conservatism will increase in the infinite horizon if a multi-period game model is applied. An increasing pattern of conservatism over time will be shown to be consistent with the multi-period utility maximization of the capitalists where they are in conflict with the workers. But it is a problem unsolved whether such growing conservative non-disclosure of unverifiable profits is allowed to be left as they are now. My research is descriptive and do not solve such normative problems.

Keywords: accounting conservatism; dynamic game; Bellman equation

JEL Classification: M41; C7; C3

Suggested Citation:

Nakano, Isao, Accounting Conservatism and its Increasing Degree in the Infinite Horizon (May 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2608871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2608871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
O Basar , G J Olsder
Dynamic Noncooperative Game Theory Posted: 1982
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S P Bandyopadhyay , C Chen , A G Huang , R Jha
Accounting Conservatism and the Temporal Trends in Current Earning's Ability to Predict Future Cash Flows versus Future Earnings: Evidence on the Trade-off between Relevance and Reliability
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 413 - 460 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Cheron , F Langhoreizon
Labor Market Search and Real Business Cycles: Reconciling Nash Bargaining with real Wage Dynamics
Review of Economic Dynamics , volume 2 , p. 478 - 493 Posted: 2004-04
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,495
RANK
538,134
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies