Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The interdependence between market structure and the quality of audited reports: the case of non-audit services

Review of Accounting Studies (forthcoming) https://doi.org/10.1007/s11142-022-09734-9

Posted: 6 Jun 2015 Last revised: 8 Apr 2023

Christopher Bleibtreu

BI Norwegian Business School

Ulrike Stefani

University of Konstanz - Department of Economics

Date Written: November 17, 2022

Abstract

This paper addresses the effects of a prohibition of providing non-audit services (NAS) to audit clients. By combining a strategic auditor–client game with a circular market-matching model that has an endogenous number of auditors, we take into account the interdependence between the auditors’ and clients’ incentives, the market structure, and the quality of audited reports. We show that the regulation’s effects depend on the preexisting audit market concentration and the types of blacklisted NAS. In sharp contrast to the effects that regulators desire, a prohibition of providing NAS to audit clients can further increase audit market concentration and decrease the quality of audited reports if the fees that auditors previously earned from providing the black-listed NAS were relatively high, compared to the reduction in audit costs that result from spillo-vers. In contrast, a prohibition of the NAS that generate intense spillovers and low NAS fees can have the unexpected-but desired-effect of decreasing market concentration; however, report-ing quality also decreases.

Keywords: Audit market concentration; audit market regulation; circular market-matching model; financial reporting quality; non-audit services; spatial competition

JEL Classification: D43; L11; M42

Suggested Citation:

Bleibtreu, Christopher and Stefani, Ulrike, The interdependence between market structure and the quality of audited reports: the case of non-audit services (November 17, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies (forthcoming) https://doi.org/10.1007/s11142-022-09734-9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2614860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2614860
 Not Available for Download
0 References
2 Citations
Ulf Mohrmann , Ulrike Stefani , Benjamin Hess
Audit Market Regulation around the World: Descriptive Evidence, Market Structure, and Audit Quality
57 Pages · Posted: 9 May 2014 · Last revised: 27 Jul 2017 · Downloads: 683
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rahman Yakubu , Tracey Williams
A theoretical approach to auditor independence and audit quality
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 124 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,222
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies