Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Information Precision and Coordination Failure: An Experiment

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2015-306

67 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2015 Last revised: 27 Apr 2016

Sanjay Banerjee

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Michael S. Maier

University of Alberta - Alberta School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 25, 2016

Abstract

More precise public disclosure reduces uncertainty about economic fundamentals, but it can increase uncertainty about other agents' actions, leading to coordination failure. We conducted a laboratory experiment to study the effects of public information precision and strategic complementarity on coordination failure. Information precision is operationalized in terms of ``granularity'' (level of detail). We found that: (i) granular public disclosure, which is disaggregated and precise, increases the likelihood of coordination failure and decreases coordination efficiency when public information is pessimistic about future economic prospects; (ii) the deleterious effect of granular disclosure is stronger when strategic complementarity is high; and (iii) higher levels of strategic complementarity decrease coordination efficiency. Overall, the observed likelihood of coordination failure is higher and coordination efficiency is lower than predicted by theory. Our findings have implications for the Federal Reserve's decision to publicly disclose detailed stress test results for distressed banks, and the debate on whether the PCAOB should publicly release reports on firm-specific quality-control deficiencies of audit firms.

Keywords: coordination failure, transparency, information granularity, global game, heterogenous information, strategic uncertainty, experiment

JEL Classification: C92, D82, D84, E58

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Sanjay and Maier, Michael, Public Information Precision and Coordination Failure: An Experiment (April 25, 2016). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2015-306, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2622707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2622707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
V V Acharya , D Gale , T Yorulmazer
Rollover risk and market freezes
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 1177 - 1209 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R M Anctil , J Dickhaut , C Johnson , C Kanodia
Does information transparency decrease coordination failure?
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 228 - 241 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R M Anctil , J Dickhaut , C Kanodia , B Shapiro
Information transparency and coordination failure: Theory and experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 195 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S T Anderson , D Friedman , R Oprea
Preemption games: Theory and experiment
American Economic Review , volume 100 , issue 4 , p. 1778 - 1803 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,613
RANK
409,437
3 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies