Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Relations Among Earnings Quality Measures

Abacus, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2015

Ralf Ewert

University of Graz - Institute of Accounting and Auditing

Alfred Wagenhofer

University of Graz

Date Written: May 15, 2015

Abstract

Empirical studies on earnings quality use various measures that capture particular dimensions of earnings quality. This paper provides a theoretical foundation to evaluate and compare several common earnings quality measures: value relevance, persistence, predictability, smoothness, and discretionary accruals. We use a rational expectations framework in which a manager has market price, earnings, and smoothing incentives and can bias earnings reports. Taking the information content of reported earnings as a natural benchmark, we determine how variations of management incentives, operating risk, and accounting noise affect earnings quality and examine whether the different measures point in the same or in the opposite direction. We find that value relevance and persistence are measures that are closely aligned with each other and with our benchmark, followed by predictability and smoothness. Discretionary accruals measures are less aligned because they are based on the level of accruals, which confounds their information content. Our results also support the notion that smoother earnings and higher discretionary accruals are associated with greater earnings quality.

Keywords: Earnings quality, earnings attributes, accounting quality, value relevance, earnings smoothing, discretionary accruals

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ewert, Ralf and Wagenhofer, Alfred, Economic Relations Among Earnings Quality Measures (May 15, 2015). Abacus, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2624959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Anne Beyer , Ilan Guttman , Ivan Marinovic
Earnings Management and Earnings Quality: Theory and Evidence
The Accounting Review (Forthcoming) Pages: 45 Posted: 31 Oct 2014 Last revised: 18 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P O Christensen , G A Feltham , F Şabac
A Contracting Perspective on Earnings Quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 294 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P O Christensen , H Frimor , F Şabac
The Stewardship Role of Analyst Forecasts, and Discretionary Versus Non-discretionary Accruals
European Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 296 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P M Dechow , C M Schrand
Earnings Quality Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,756
RANK
189,693
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies