Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Fees Post-SOX: An Auction Model

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2626146

23 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2015 Last revised: 7 Jul 2015

Ramy Elitzur

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Arieh Gavious

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev; Ono Academic College - Faculty of Business Administration

Yizhaq Minchuk

Shamoon College of Engineering

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 2015

Abstract

The literature shows that audit fees have increased after the SOX ban to audit clients on non-audit services (NAS) but the reason behind it has been unclear until now. Using an auction modeling approach, this study aims to bridge this gap by providing a theoretical explanation for this enigma. In the first auction setting, auditors can compete for both auditing and NAS (the pre-SOX setting). We then investigate how the auction would look when auditors can compete on either auditing or NAS (the post-SOX setting). We show that audit fees will be higher in the post-SOX setting than the pre-SOX one. Furthermore, we show that the SOX ban on NAS would actually make auditors better off than before if NAS budgets remain at, or exceed, the pre-SOX amounts. This result holds even if NAS budgets were reduced but not drastically.

Keywords: Auctions, Auditing, Audit Fees, Nonaudit Services, Serbanes-Oxley

Suggested Citation:

Elitzur, Ramy and Gavious, Arieh and Minchuk, Yizhaq, Audit Fees Post-SOX: An Auction Model (June 2015). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2626146, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2626146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2626146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J C Bedard , K M Johnstone
Earnings manipulation risk, corporate governance risk, and auditors' planning and pricing decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Causholli , M De Martinis , D Hay , W R Knechel
Audit markets, fees and production: Towards an integrated view of empirical audit research
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 29 , p. 167 - 215 Posted: 2010
J H Choi , J B Kim , X Liu , D Simunic
Audit pricing, legal liability regimes, and Big-4 premiums: Theory and cross-country evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 99 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Zach Kowaleski , Brian W. Mayhew , Amy Tegeler
The Impact of Consulting Services on Audit Quality: An Experimental Approach
56 Pages · Posted: 2 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 363
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,726
RANK
340,852
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies