Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Combined Impact of Asymmetric Taxation and Limited Liability on Optimal Compensation

33 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2015

Fabian Meißner

BearingPoint

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Andreas Scholze

Osnabrück University

Date Written: July 10, 2015

Abstract

We study a binary principal-agent model featuring two risk-neutral parties, in which the agent is protected by limited liability and his compensation is affected by an asymmetric treatment of gains and losses by the tax authority. The model challenges the common wisdom that the principal is always better off whenever the agent is taxed less aggressively. We argue that it depends crucially on the amount of the agent's pledgeable assets whether or not a change in the loss tax rate makes the principal better off. If the agent's pledgeable assets are sufficiently high such that limited liability is not an issue, then an increased loss tax rate leads to a higher tax refund by the tax authority which in turn allows the principal to reduce the cost of compensation without distorting the agent's incentives to work hard. However, if the agent does not own enough pledgeable assets then the principal prefers asymmetric taxation over symmetric taxation. In particular, we find that there exists a loss tax rate such that the principal's welfare is maximized, whereby the loss tax rate is strictly lower than the profit tax rate. Based on our findings we predict that - depending on the amount of the agent's pledgeable assets and the loss tax rate - there is either a positive or a negative correlation between bonuses paid to the agent and the principal's welfare.

Keywords: asymmetric taxation, variable compensation, moral hazard, agency theory

JEL Classification: D86, H21, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Meißner, Fabian and Schneider, Georg Thomas and Scholze, Andreas, The Combined Impact of Asymmetric Taxation and Limited Liability on Optimal Compensation (July 10, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2629259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2629259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
E Agliardi , R Agliardi
Progressive taxation and corporate liquidation: Analysis and policy Implications
Journal of Policy Modeling , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 532 - 541 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A J Auerbach
The dynamic effects of tax law asymmetries
Review of Economic Studies , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 225 Posted: 1986
Crossref
A J Auerbach , J M Poterba
The Effects of Taxation on Capital Accumulation
Tax loss carryforwards and corporate tax incentives. In: Feldstein, M , p. 305 - 338 Posted: 1987
A Banerjee , T Besley
Moral Hazard, Limited Liability and Taxation
Oxford Economic Papers , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 46 - 60 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,429
RANK
667,795
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies