Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Are Investment Projects in the Same Risk Class?

Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

11 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2015 Last revised: 29 Jul 2015

David Johnstone

University of Sydney Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 30, 2015

Abstract

If two investments have the same payoff covariance with the market but one has higher expected payoff, which asset according to the CAPM has most risk? One answer is that as far as risk goes the two assets are the same, because they have the same covariance with the market. The correct answer, pointed out nearly four decades ago by Eugene Fama, but long overlooked, is that investments have the same risk, the same returns beta and the same CAPM discount rate if and only if they have the same ratio of ex ante payoff covariance to payoff mean. This insight clarifies much of the conventional wisdom that surrounds capital budgeting and "risk adjusted" discount rates, while also displaying the mechanics by which information arrival affects the CAPM cost of capital.

Keywords: CAPM, cost of capital, cash flow beta

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G10, G12, D81

Suggested Citation:

Johnstone, David, When Are Investment Projects in the Same Risk Class? (January 30, 2015). Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2634248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Jeremy Bertomeu , Edwige Cheynel
Disclosure and the Cost of Capital: A Survey of the Theoretical Literature
Routledge Companion to Accounting Theory, Forthcoming, Abacus, Forthcoming, Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 15-16 Pages: 35 Posted: 26 Sep 2014 Last revised: 8 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
N Bhattacharya , F Eecker , P Olsson , K Schipper
Direct and mediated associations among earnings quality, information asymmetry, and the cost of equity
Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 449 - 482 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R A Brealey , S C Myers , F Allen
Principles of Corporate Finance , volume 11 Posted: 2014
J L Coles , U Loewenstein
Equilibrium pricing and portfolio composition in the presence of uncertain parameters
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 22 , p. 279 - 303 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,248
RANK
492,934
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies