Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bias and the Commitment to Disclosure

Forthcoming in Management Science

37 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2015

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Robert E. Verrecchia

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: June 23, 2015

Abstract

This paper studies the propensity of firms to commit to disclose information that is subsequently biased, in the presence of other firms also issuing potentially biased information. An important aspect of such an analysis is the fact that firms can choose whether to disclose or withhold information. We show that allowing the number of disclosed reports to be endogenous introduces a countervailing force to some of the empirical predictions from the prior literature. For example, we find that as more firms issue a report or as the correlation across firms' cash flows increases, the firm biases its report less. However, when we treat firms' disclosure choices as endogenous, we show that the number of firms that commit to disclose decreases as the correlation across these cash flows increases, and this, in turn, offsets the direct effect of the correlation on bias.

Keywords: committed disclosure, earnings guidance, bias, multiple firms

JEL Classification: G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Verrecchia, Robert E., Bias and the Commitment to Disclosure (June 23, 2015). Forthcoming in Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2635092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO Stock Option Awards and the Timing of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A R Admati , P ‡eiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry Concentration and Corporate Disclosure Policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Oligopoly, Disclosure, and Earnings Management , volume 85 , p. 1191 - 1214 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,110
RANK
261,368
6 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies