Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taste, Information, and Asset Prices: Implications for the Valuation of CSR

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2015 Last revised: 12 Apr 2016

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: November 15, 2015

Abstract

Firms often undertake activities that do not necessarily increase cash flows (e.g., costly investments in corporate social responsibility, or CSR), and some investors value these non-cash activities (i.e., they have a "taste" for these activities). We develop a model to capture this phenomenon and focus on the asset-pricing implications of differences in investors' tastes for firms' activities and outputs. Our model shows that, first, investor taste differences provide a basis for investor clientele effects that are endogenously determined by the shares demanded by different types of investors. Second, because the market must clear at one price, investors' demands are influenced by all dimensions of firm output even if their preferences are only over some dimensions. Third, information releases cause trading volume, even when all investors have the same information. Fourth, investor taste provides a rationale for corporate spin-offs that help firms better target their shareholder bases. Finally, individual social responsibility can lead to corporate social responsibility when managers care about stock price because price reacts to investments in CSR activities.

Keywords: asset pricing, taste, reporting, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: G11, G12, L30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Henry L. and Heinle, Mirko Stanislav, Taste, Information, and Asset Prices: Implications for the Valuation of CSR (November 15, 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2635057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2635057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
F Allen , A E Bernardo , I Welch
A theory of dividends based on tax clienteles
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Andreoni
Giving with impure altruism: Applications to charity and ricardian equivalence
Journal of Political Economy , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 1447 - 1458 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Mark E. Bagnoli , Susan G. Watts
Voluntary Assurance of Voluntary CSR Disclosure
Pages: 32 Posted: 14 Jul 2014 Last revised: 31 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M J Barclay , C G Holderness
Private bene…ts from control of public corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
637
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,663
RANK
95,735
114 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies