Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leading Indicator Variables and Managerial Incentives in a Dynamic Agency Setting

49 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2015 Last revised: 26 Apr 2018

Qintao Fan

University of Oregon, Lundquist School of Business

Wei Li

University of Washington-Bothell; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 2, 2018

Abstract

This paper studies, in a dynamic agency setting, how incentives and contractual efficiency are affected by leading indicators of firms' future financial performance. In our two-period model, a leading indicator variable provides a noisy forecast of the uncertain return from the manager's long-term effort, and both contracting parties cannot refrain from renegotiating contract terms based on updated information. We find that the leading indicator can reduce the manager's long-term effort incentive as it facilitates the firm owner to capture more of the resulting return through renegotiated wages (i.e., the manager is held up). By reducing the uncertainty about future aggregate cash flows, the leading indicator also exacerbates the "ratchet" effect and discourages the manager's short-term effort. In equilibrium, as the leading indicator becomes more accurate in forecasting future cash flows, the first-period contract attaches higher explicit weights to both the forward-looking leading indicator and backward-looking cash flow, and yet the manager may find it optimal to reduce both the short- and long-term efforts. We further show that with a more accurate leading indicator variable, the explicit incentive on the lagging cash flow may increase more than that on the leading indicator, and the equilibrium firm profit may decrease and diverge from the manager's equilibrium efforts.

Keywords: leading indicator variable; ratchet effect; holdup problem

JEL Classification: D8; G30; J33; M40

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Qintao and Li, Wei, Leading Indicator Variables and Managerial Incentives in a Dynamic Agency Setting (April 2, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2639699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2639699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Commitment issues in budgeting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 41 - 58 Posted: 1997
Crossref
-- , J Fellingham , J C Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital budgeting, the hold-up problem, and information system design
Management Science , volume 46 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
S Baiman , T Baldenius
Nonfinancial performance measures as coordination devices
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 299 - 330 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Banker , S Datar
Sensitivity, precision and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,752
RANK
328,615
3 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies