Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vicarious Liability for Managerial Myopia

U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. E559

73 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2015

James C. Spindler

University of Texas School of Law; McCombs School of Business, University of Texas at Austin

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 5, 2015

Abstract

This paper models a shareholder's choice of managerial compensation to demonstrate that vicarious liability (i.e., firm-level fines) can optimally deter managerial misreporting. Shareholders choose compensation in light of the manager's control over effort and disclosure, as well as the degree of agency cost (modeled as the manager's relatively shorter time horizon, or myopia). Where agency costs and/or fines are small, shareholders award equity compensation, leading to both high effort and misreporting. Where expected fines are set at a function of the misreporting externality, shareholders optimally choose whether or not to award equity and induce effort/misreporting. Reforms aimed at decreasing agency costs (such as those promoting long term compensation) may actually reduce social welfare where fines are not set at the externality level: shareholders will award equity when they, socially, should not. Conversely, reducing misreporting by increasing fines arbitrarily may reduce social welfare, as shareholders will fail to award equity when it is optimal to do so.

Keywords: Executive compensation, corporate governance, misreporting, fraud, securities law, moral hazard

JEL Classification: D21, D82, G30, K22, M52

Suggested Citation:

Spindler, James C., Vicarious Liability for Managerial Myopia (August 5, 2015). U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. E559, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2640172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2640172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
V Viral , Kose Acharya , Rangarahan K John , Sundaram
On the Optimality of Resetting Executive Stock Options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 57 , p. 65 - 101 Posted: 2000
Janet Alexander
Do the Merits Matter? A Study of Settlements in Securities Class Actions
43 Stanford Law Review , p. 297 - 598 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Janet Alexander
Rethinking Damages in Securities Class Actions
48 Stanford L. Rev Posted: 1996
Crossref
Jennifer Arlen
The Potentially Perverse E¤ects of Corporate Criminal Liability
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,972
RANK
265,489
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies