Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limits to Voluntary Disclosure in Efficient Markets

JOURNAL OF ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND FINANCE, Vol 11, No 3, Summer 1996

Posted: 25 Jun 1998

Bharat Sarath

Rutgers University

Madhav V. Rajan

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Abstract

In competitive markets, prices offered by investors play a dual role: they must induce the firm to make truthful disclosures about its expected cash flows and they must also be efficient, i.e., equal the expected future cash flows to the buyer conditional on the disclosed information. We show that these requirements may exert opposing influences resulting in equilibrium disclosures being partial; that is, they might cause firms to reveal some, but not all of the valuation relevant information possessed by the firm. We then characterize the maximal level of information that can be elicited through efficient prices. We apply our analysis to the study of voluntary disclosures in the context of equity offerings, leases and sale of tax-loss carry-forwards and compare these to the level of currently mandated disclosures under GAAP.

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M40, M45

Suggested Citation:

Sarath, Bharat Sarrukai and Rajan, Madhav V., Limits to Voluntary Disclosure in Efficient Markets. JOURNAL OF ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND FINANCE, Vol 11, No 3, Summer 1996, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2641
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,058
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies