Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Under-Weighting of Private Information by Top Analysts

58 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2015 Last revised: 28 Aug 2016

Gil Aharoni

University of Melbourne; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Eti Einhorn

Tel Aviv University

Qi Zeng

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 17, 2015

Abstract

It is conventionally perceived in the literature that weak analysts are likely to under-weight their private information and strategically bias their announcements in the direction of the public beliefs to avoid scenarios where their private information turns out to be wrong, whereas strong analysts tend to adopt an opposite strategy of over-weighting their private information and shifting their announcements away from the public beliefs in an attempt to stand out from the crowd. Analyzing a reporting game between two financial analysts, who are compensated based on their relative forecast accuracy, we demonstrate that it could be the other way around. An investigation of the equilibrium in our game suggests that, contrary to the common perception, analysts who benefit from information advantage may strategically choose to understate their exclusive private information and bias their announcements toward the public beliefs, while exhibiting the opposite behavior of overstating their private information when they estimate that their peers are likely to be equally informed.

Keywords: Security analysts; Earnings forecasts; Bias; Misreporting; Understatement of private information; Overstatement of private information; Relative ranking; Forecasting contests

JEL Classification: C72; D82; G17; G29; M41

Suggested Citation:

Aharoni, Gil and Einhorn, Eti and Zeng, Qi, Under-Weighting of Private Information by Top Analysts (August 17, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2645591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2645591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
G ; J Aharoni , J ; And F Shemesh , Zapatero
Strategic Announcements by Star Analysts Posted: 2013
Crossref
C N Avery , J A Chevalier
Herding over the Career
Economics Letters , volume 63 , p. 327 - 360 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D ; M Bernhardt , Campello; And E , Kutsoati
Who Herds?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , p. 657 - 75 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Beyer , And I Guttman
The Effect of Trading Volume on Analysts' Forecast Bias
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 451 - 81 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,020
RANK
371,780
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies