Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rising and Changing Professional Knowledge as Barriers to Entry

Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Volume 10, Issue 2, Spring 2015

Hebrew University of Jerusalem Legal Research Paper

17 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2015

Shmuel Nitzan

Bar-Ilan University - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Uriel Procaccia

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law

Joseph Tzur

Ruppin Academic Center - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 26, 2015

Abstract

Applying a partial equilibrium model, this paper examines the role of the rate of increase in the level of professional knowledge and the role of the rate of replacement of "old" for "new" knowledge on the equilibrium concentration level in a market for professional services. The two main results provide the conditions for ‘no-entry’ and ‘no-exit’ equilibrium. These conditions provide a plausible rationalization for concentration in the high-level market for professional services. In this paper we use data pertaining in particular to the high-level market for auditing services. The generality of our results suggests that a similar model can be utilized to illuminate concentration phenomena in additional markets for professional and related services.

Keywords: economics, no entry, no exit, equilibrium model, services

Suggested Citation:

Nitzan, Shmuel and Procaccia, Uriel and Tzur, Joseph, Rising and Changing Professional Knowledge as Barriers to Entry (August 26, 2015). Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Volume 10, Issue 2, Spring 2015, Hebrew University of Jerusalem Legal Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2651044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
V Beattie , A Goodacre , S Fearnley
And then there were four: A study of UK audit market concentration -causes, consequences and the scope for market adjustment
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , issue 11 , p. 250 - 265 Posted: 2003
Crossref
T Caban-Garcia Maria , Cammack Susan , E
Audit Firm Concentration and Competition: Effects of Consolidation Since
The Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
G Dell&apos;ariccia , E Friedman , R Marquez
Adverse Selection as a Barrier to Entry in the Banking Industry
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 515 - 534 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B C Eaton , R G Lipsey
Exit Barriers are Entry Barriers: The Durability of Capital as a Barrier to Entry
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 721 - 729 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,558
RANK
687,436
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies