Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Options on Information Acquisition and Asset Pricing

Finance Down Under 2016 Building on the Best from the Cellars of Finance

48 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2015

Shiyang Huang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 2015

Abstract

We study the effect of introducing an options market on investors' incentive to collect private information in a rational expectation equilibrium model. We show that an options market has two effects on information acquisition: a negative effect, as options act as substitutes for information, and a positive effect, as informed investors have less need for options and can earn profits from selling them. When the population of informed investors is high due to low information acquisition cost, the supply for options is large, leading to low option prices. Low option prices in turn induce investors to use options instead of information to reduce risk, while informed investors earn little profits from selling options to cover their information acquisition cost. Introducing an options market thus decreases investors' incentive to acquire information, and the prices of the underlying assets become less informative, leading to lower prices and higher volatilities. A dynamic extension of this analysis shows that introducing an options market increases the price reactions to earnings announcements. However, when the information acquisition cost is high, the opposite effects arise. Further analysis shows that our results are robust for more general derivatives. These results provide a potentially unified theory to reconcile the conflicting empirical findings on the options listing of individual stocks in both the U.S. market and international markets.

Keywords: Option, information acquisition cost, rational expectation equilibrium, derivatives

JEL Classification: G12, G13, G14

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Shiyang, The Effect of Options on Information Acquisition and Asset Pricing (May 2015). Finance Down Under 2016 Building on the Best from the Cellars of Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2666880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2666880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Anat R Admati
A Noisy Rational Expectations Equilibrium for Multi-Asset Securities Markets
Econometrica , volume 53 , p. 629 - 657 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Anat R Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
Selling and Trading on Information In Financial Markets
American Economic Review , volume 78 , p. 96 - 103 Posted: 1988
Franklin Allen , Douglas Gale
Financial Innovation and Risk Sharing Posted: 1994
George A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,107
RANK
478,373
3 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies