Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Reputation Concerns, Legal Liability, and Standards

47 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2015 Last revised: 4 Mar 2020

Naomi Rothenberg

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: February 29 1, 2020

Abstract

This paper studies how legal liability due to negligence can weaken or strengthen an auditor’s reputation concerns in the client market to provide high audit effort. A negligence liability rule relies on auditing standards to provide a threshold for the level of due care. When the negligence standard is lax, legal liability can weaken the auditor’s reputation incentives, with lower audit effort than without legal liability. If the damage payment is low, noncompliance is less costly, because with compliance, reputational concerns cause the auditor to provide higher, costly audit effort than the standard. In this case, investors also prefer noncompliance, but earnings quality is lower than if there were no legal liability damages. When the standard is stringent, noncompliance is less costly for the auditor, but legal liability strengthens reputation incentives. Investors may also prefer noncompliance, and earnings quality is higher than if there were no legal liability damages.

Keywords: audit quality, reputation, legal liability, earnings quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, D82, M48

Suggested Citation:

Rothenberg, Naomi, Auditor Reputation Concerns, Legal Liability, and Standards (February 29 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2669599 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2669599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Pamela Kent , Richard Kent , Grant Richardson , Divesh Shankar Sharma
The Importance of Partner Naming when Examining Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Services
52 Pages · Posted: 10 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 230
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Minlei Ye
The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
127 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 10 May 2023 · Downloads: 1,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
601
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,719
RANK
102,967
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies