Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supporting and Assessing Agents

35 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2015 Last revised: 28 Mar 2017

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 23, 2017

Abstract

This manuscript proposes a theory of why and when organizations "support" their employees with resources, time, and freedom beyond what seems economically optimal. The idea is that support plays an information generating role in that it renders output more informative about employees' abilities. This effect reduces the need to gather additional information about ability via costly monitoring and commits the firm to make replacement/promotion decisions that are more sensitive to performance. Consequently, support indirectly strengthens employees' career concern incentives and reduces the pressure on costly bonus payments. I apply the model to tech companies, academia, and capital budgeting.

Keywords: ability assessment, resource allocation, career concerns, incentive contracting, termination/promotion

JEL Classification: D21, D81, D83, D86, M14, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Laux, Volker, Supporting and Assessing Agents (March 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2695470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Antle , G D Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
P Aghion , M Jackson
Inducing leaders to take risky decisions: Dismissal, tenure, and term limits
American Economic Review. Forthcoming Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,827
RANK
407,330
2 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies