Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of PCAOB-Type Regulations on Auditors under Different Legal Systems

2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2697268

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, forthcoming

Posted: 4 Dec 2015 Last revised: 16 Aug 2022

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Dan A. Simunic

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: August 15, 2022

Abstract

This paper analyzes the impact of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)-type regulatory oversight and legal liability on audit quality and social surplus. We show the conditions under which regulatory oversight can improve audit quality and social surplus, as compared to the impact of legal systems. Moreover, we demonstrate that regulatory oversight is not likely to substitute effectively for a legal system. This is the first study that analyzes the possible effects of an audit regulator on auditors under different legal systems, and our results enhance understanding of the complex relationship between regulatory oversight, a legal system, and social surplus.

Keywords: Regulatory oversight, auditing standards, audit quality, audit value

JEL Classification: M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Ye, Minlei and Simunic, Dan A., The Impact of PCAOB-Type Regulations on Auditors under Different Legal Systems (August 15, 2022). 2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2697268, Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2697268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2697268
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,109
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies