Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Rules, Equity Valuation, and Growth Options

46 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2015

Dmitry Livdan

University of California, Berkeley

Alexander Nezlobin

London School of Economics

Date Written: December 7, 2015

Abstract

In a model with irreversible capacity investments, we show that financial statements prepared under replacement cost accounting provide investors with sufficient information for equity valuation purposes. Under alternative accounting rules, including historical cost and value in use accounting, investors will generally not be able to value precisely a firm's growth options and, therefore, its equity. For these accounting rules, we describe the range of valuations that is consistent with the firm's financial statements. We further show that replacement cost accounting preserves all value-relevant information if the firm's investments are reversible. However, the directional relation between the value of the firm's equity and the replacement cost of its assets is different from that in the setting with irreversible investments.

Suggested Citation:

Livdan, Dmitry and Nezlobin, Alexander, Accounting Rules, Equity Valuation, and Growth Options (December 7, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2700427 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2700427
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A Abel , J Eberly
How Q and Cash Flow Aect Investment Without Frictions: An Analytic Explanation
Review of Economic Studies , volume 78 , p. 1179 - 1200 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Abel , J Eberly
A Unied Model of Investment Under Uncertainty
American Economic Review , volume 84 , p. 1369 - 1384 Posted: 1994
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover
Option Value to Waiting Created by a Control Problem
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 405 - 415 Posted: 2001
Crossref
T Baldenius , A Nezlobin , I Vaysman
Managerial Performance Evaluation and Real Options
The Accounting Review Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,982
RANK
334,632
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies