Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards, Regulatory Enforcement, and Innovation

48 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2016 Last revised: 16 May 2017

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Phillip C. Stocken

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: May 15, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effects of accounting standards and regulatory enforcement on entrepreneurial innovation and social welfare. When the entrepreneur issues a financial report that violates the standards, a regulatory agency may detect the violation and bring charges. We find that when regulatory penalties are relatively insensitive to the magnitude of the violation, optimal standards are sufficiently low that they induce full compliance, and increase as the intensity of enforcement increases. In contrast, when regulatory penalties are sensitive to the magnitude of the violation, optimal standards induce non-compliance and decline as the intensity of enforcement increases.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, Regulatory Enforcement, Innovation, Manipulation

Suggested Citation:

Laux, Volker and Stocken, Phillip C., Accounting Standards, Regulatory Enforcement, and Innovation (May 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2713170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2713170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M E Barth
Research, Standard Setting, and Global Financial Reporting
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 165 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M E Barth , D Israeli
Disentangling Mandatory IFRS Reporting and Changes in Enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 178 - 188 Posted: 2013
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
X Chang , G Hilary , J.-K Kang , W Zhang
Innovation, Managerial Myopia, and Financial Reporting. Working Paper Posted: 2015
Load more
34 Citations
Maksym Borshch
Legal mechanisms for improving the efficiency of accounting in the social security sector: Analysis of the regulatory environment and recommendations for improvement
Law. Human. Environment , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 9 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Dyeniffer Packer Eigenstuhler , Cristian Baú dal Magro , Sady Mazzioni
Habilidade Gerencial e a Conformidade Contábil-fiscal
Revista Catarinense da Ciência Contábil , volume 22 , p. e3341 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Patricia Ruffing-Straube
Enforcement and Information Risk: The Role of the institutional Environment
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2016
Crossref
Matthias Hoeltken , Germar Ebner
Enforcement of Financial Reporting: A Corporate Governance Perspective
48 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2016 · Downloads: 322
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,694
RANK
125,376
34 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies