Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Taxation and Corporate Investment

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 740

26 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2016 Last revised: 18 Apr 2025

David A. Weisbach

University of Chicago - Law School

Date Written: November 14, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the effect of the interaction of dividend taxes and capital gains taxes on the sale of stock. Using a model of the new view of dividend taxation modified to incorporate realization-based capital gains and losses on stock, it shows that capital gains taxes increase the required rate of return on corporate investments in a way that parallels the required higher return for selling an asset due to lock-in. As a result, capital gains taxes create an incentive to accelerate dividends. Moreover, the capital gains tax rate is endogenous to dividend policy (in addition to turnover rates). Finally, modifying the model to allow sales between tax clienteles shows that the new view does not hold even when projects are financed with retained earnings if such sales occur.

Keywords: dividend taxation, capital gains, new view, lock-in

JEL Classification: H2, H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Weisbach, David, Capital Gains Taxation and Corporate Investment (November 14, 2016). University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 740, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2721798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2721798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Franklin Allen , Roni Michaely , Milton Harris , René M Stulz George , M Constantinides
Handbook of the Economics of Finance. Corporate Finance Posted: 2003
Alan J Auerbach
Wealth Maximization and the Cost of Capital
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 93 Posted: 1979
Alan J Auerbach
Taxation and corporate financial policy , volume 3 , p. 1251 - 1292 Posted: 2002
Alan J Auerbach , Kevin A Hassett
On the marginal source of investment funds
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 205 - 232 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,058
RANK
195,765
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies