Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of Alternative Market-Based Transfer Prices

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2016 Last revised: 1 Oct 2017

Nicole Bastian Johnson

University of Oregon

Clemens Löffler

University of Applied Sciences for Management and Communication (FHWien der WKW)

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Date Written: August 31, 2017

Abstract

We investigate a transfer pricing problem between two divisions within a decentralized firm. An upstream division produces an intermediate good that is used by another division within the firm and is also sold in an external market, where the firm competes with a rival selling a differentiated substitute product. Assuming that headquarters has imperfect information about the upstream division's private information and that communication is restricted, we identify conditions under which the firm will prefer a market-based transfer price based on the market price set by the firm's rival rather than on the market price set by the upstream division. The two transfer prices affect the price-setting incentives of the upstream division and its rival differently, and convey different levels of private-cost information to the downstream division, which impacts internal trade efficiency. The relative performance of the two transfer pricing regimes depends on the relative size of internal versus external demand for the upstream division's good and on the degree of uncertainty about the upstream division's costs. Overall, our analysis provides new insights about how alternative market-based transfer prices can coordinate decentralized decision-making in the absence of a perfectly competitive intermediate market.

Keywords: Intra-company coordination, imperfect competition, market-based transfer pricing

JEL Classification: L22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Nicole Bastian and Löffler, Clemens and Pfeiffer, Thomas, An Evaluation of Alternative Market-Based Transfer Prices (August 31, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2726869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2726869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Abu-Serdaneh
Transfer pricing in UK manufacturing companies Posted: 2004
M Alles , S Datar
Strategic transfer pricing
Management Science , volume 44 , issue 4 , p. 451 - 461 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Pricing internal trade to get a leg up on external rivals
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 709 - 731 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Input markets and the strategic organization of the firm
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 97 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Andrea Cuccia
Potential of IFRS 8: Managerial 'customization', relevance of subsidiaries and separate financial statements
FINANCIAL REPORTING , issue 1 , p. 103 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Tim Baldenius , Beatrice Michaeli
Responsibility Centers, Decision Rights, and Synergies
The Accounting Review, Volume 95(2) · 56 Pages · Posted: 15 May 2018 · Last revised: 2 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 277
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,149
RANK
226,777
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies