Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price Discovery and Accounting Under Stress

52 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2016 Last revised: 15 Jul 2016

Amir Amel-Zadeh

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Dai Li

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Date Written: July 14, 2016

Abstract

We develop a general equilibrium model to investigate the adverse effects of liquidity risk on price discovery and to examine the interaction of (externally or internally imposed) solvency requirements for financial institutions with the accounting measurement for financial assets in markets under stress. The model develops liquidity demand and supply curves generating two types of general equilibria: liquid and illiquid. We then investigate the adverse feedback effects in the illiquid equilibrium in response to banks selling risky assets to satisfy solvency requirements. Our model captures negative externalities of other banks responding to a liquidity shock with precautionary hoarding and predicts that the potential of bank runs reduces the motivation to hoard. Model results further suggest that applying mark-to-market accounting in the illiquid equilibrium can lead to loss spirals transforming a bank’s illiquidity problem to one of insolvency. We discuss several policy implications for the role of fair value accounting in linking liquidity and solvency problems of banks during times of market stress.

Keywords: Liquidity risk, mark-to-market, fair value accounting, general equilibrium, financial institutions, bankcuptcy

JEL Classification: D58; D62; G21; G24; G28; G33; M41

Suggested Citation:

Amel-Zadeh, Amir and Li, Dai, Price Discovery and Accounting Under Stress (July 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2733944 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2733944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,437
RANK
514,660
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies