Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Charge Rates, Investment Incentives and Taxation

European Accounting Review, Vol. 26, No. 3, pp. 419-440, 2017

33 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2016 Last revised: 22 Jul 2017

Thomas Bauer

University of Vienna

Thomas Kourouxous

University of Graz

Date Written: February 23, 2016

Abstract

This paper studies the impact of personal and corporate income taxation on capital charge rates in a delegation setting with a risk-averse manager. If the investment level influences the riskiness of the investment project, the capital charge rate deviates from the firm's cost of capital and depends crucially on the manager's personal income tax rate. Contradicting conventional wisdom, we find that a higher personal income tax rate induces higher investment expenditures and, surprisingly, increases the capital charge rate. The countervailing effect that a higher capital charge rate induces higher and not lower investment expenditures persists for pre-tax and after-tax performance measures as well as when the tax deductibility of managerial compensation is limited. Corporate income tax causes a similar effect only in the case of limited tax deductibility of compensation. Our insights remain valid regardless of the financing structure and the risk attitude of the investors.

Keywords: Personal income tax, Corporate income tax, Residual income, Capital charge rate, Tax deductibility

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Thomas and Kourouxous, Thomas, Capital Charge Rates, Investment Incentives and Taxation (February 23, 2016). European Accounting Review, Vol. 26, No. 3, pp. 419-440, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2743142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
T J Atwood , T C Omer , M K Shelley
Before-tax versus after-tax earnings as performance measures in compensation contracts
Managerial Finance , volume 24 , issue 11 , p. 29 - 43 Posted: 1998
Crossref
T Baldenius
Delegated investment decisions and private benefits of control
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 909 - 930 Posted: 2003
Crossref
T Baldenius , S Dutta , S Reichelstein
Cost allocation for capital budgeting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , p. 837 - 867 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Tim Baldenius , Amir Ziv
Performance Evaluation and Corporate Income Taxes in a Sequential Delegation Setting
Pages: 41 Posted: 9 Apr 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,298
RANK
413,842
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies