Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Director Appointments and Board Voting Patterns

47 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2016 Last revised: 27 Jan 2018

George Drymiotes

Texas Christian University

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

Date Written: January 5, 2018

Abstract

Recent corporate governance scandals have been attributed to lack of board independence and the influence CEOs have over their boards. However, CEOs can also affect board efficacy without compromising independence by choosing directors strategically. We offer a theoretical framework using a model of board voting to examine how director characteristics and strategic director choice affect equilibrium voting strategies. We show that some "passivity" on the part of directors -- such as rubberstamping managers' actions and deferring to other directors on the board without the benefit of information -- can in fact be desirable equilibrium behavior, implying that the board can actually make better decisions by relying on less information (i.e., from fewer directors) some of the time. We show that opportunistic (principled) managers may not always appoint the least (most) able directors to the board, contrary to what we might expect. We also find that "independent" board picks by well-meaning activists and/or institutional investors may not always foster board effectiveness.

Keywords: Board of directors, corporate governance, majority voting, rubberstamping, deferring, abstaining

JEL Classification: D80, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Drymiotes, George and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva, Strategic Director Appointments and Board Voting Patterns (January 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2787980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2787980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Fried
Executive compensation as an agency problem
The Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L A Bebchuk
Pay without performance: The unful…lled promise of executive compensation Posted: 2009
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen
The costs of entrenched boards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 409 - 433 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,280
RANK
475,518
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies