Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Considering Multiple Materialities for Account Combinations in Audit Planning and Evaluation: A Cost Efficient Approach

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 13, No. 2, 1998

22 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2016 Last revised: 6 Oct 2016

Saurav K. Dutta

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Lynford E. Graham

Bentley University

Date Written: March 1, 1998

Abstract

An analytic framework is provided for incorporating different user perspectives on materiality into the audit process. The framework serves as a tool for disaggregating materiality to specific accounts based on materiality criteria for accounts and account combinations. To improve audit efficiency, the planning method incorporates the relative cost of auditing various account balances. It extends existing models of audit risk and materiality by considering explicitly the materiality of account combinations (sums and ratios) to enhance audit effectiveness.

Keywords: Audit Risk, Materiality, Financial Ratios, Aggregation, Evidence

JEL Classification: C11, C13, C15, C44, D83, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Dutta, Saurav K. and Graham, Lynford E., Considering Multiple Materialities for Account Combinations in Audit Planning and Evaluation: A Cost Efficient Approach (March 1, 1998). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 13, No. 2, 1998, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2787094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
971
RANK
627,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies