Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Taxes on Competition for CEOs

European Accounting Review 26(3): 503-530, 2017

33 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2016 Last revised: 22 Oct 2017

Peter Krenn

University of Graz - Center for Accounting Research

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper contributes to the question of how taxation of corporate profits and wages affects competition among firms for highly-skilled human resources such as CEOs. Use of a theoretical model shows that wage taxes can have a substantial impact on the outcome of such a competition if marginal tax rates are different as in an international labour market. Further, the paper shows that increasing the wage tax rate unilaterally can have an ambiguous effect on observed gross compensation levels. However, in a local labour market for CEOs, observed gross fixed salaries should decline in the wage tax rate. Tax effects in a market for CEOs is a particularly interesting topic because recent developments with respect to compensation practices of top-level managers have opened a public debate about the use of instruments for regulating compensation of those managers. Furthermore, many countries around the world use tax incentives in order to facilitate immigration of highly-skilled human resources. The investigation follows an analytical economics-based approach by extending a LEN model with elements of competition for scarce human resources and income taxation. It investigates the impact of differential taxation on the competition between two firms for the exclusive service of a unique, highly-skilled CEO.

Keywords: CEO, taxes, competition for talents, skilled human resources

JEL Classification: D82, H24, H25, J31, J33

Suggested Citation:

Krenn, Peter, The Impact of Taxes on Competition for CEOs (June 1, 2016). European Accounting Review 26(3): 503-530, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2792124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
S Allgood , K A Farrell
The Match between CEO and Firm
The Journal of Business , volume 76 , p. 317 - 341 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A G Andritz
Financial report Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Arnegger , C Hofmann , K Pull , K Vetter
Unterschiede in der fachlichen und demographischen Zusammensetzung deutscher Aufsichtsräte: Eine empirische Bestandsaufnahme für HDAX-und SDAX-Unternehmen [Differences in the Skill and Demographic Composition of German Supervisory Boards: An Empirical Posted: 2010
Die Betriebswirtschaft , volume 70 , p. 239 - 257
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rainer Niemann , Mariana Sailer
Performance-Based Incentive Contracts under Asymmetric Taxation
44 Pages · Posted: 26 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 11 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,337
RANK
622,944
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies