Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence Activities, Coalitions, and Uniform Policies: Implications for the Regulation of Financial Institutions

Management Science, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2016 Last revised: 22 Apr 2019

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: February 27, 2019

Abstract

In this paper we examine a setting where agents can form lobbying coalitions to influence a policy-maker. Policy uniformity causes agents to free ride on each other's lobbying and gives them an incentive to form lobbying coalitions. We investigate when coalitions are formed by similar or dissimilar agents and show that endogenous coalition formation causes the effects of policy uniformity and lobbying costs on aggregate lobbying activity and policy strength to be non-monotonic. Our model suggests that increased competition in the market for coalition-facilitating lobbyists can lead to less lobbying. We discuss implications for the regulation of financial institutions.

Keywords: Lobbies, Coalitions, One-Size-Fits-All, Regulation

JEL Classification: D72, G38, L51, M40

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Henry L. and Heinle, Mirko Stanislav, Influence Activities, Coalitions, and Uniform Policies: Implications for the Regulation of Financial Institutions (February 27, 2019). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2799992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2799992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
F Bloch
Coalitions and networks in industrial organization
The Manchester School , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K Bogardus
Corporate lobbying fuels coalition craze. The Hill Posted: 2013-02-02
M Bombardini , F Trebbi
Competition and political organization: Together or alone in lobbying for trade policy
Journal of International Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 26 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Carletti , M G Dell&apos;ariccia , M R Marquez
Supervisory incentives in a banking union Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,078
RANK
271,899
4 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies