Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informational Role and Value Relevance of Earnings, Cash Flows, and Accruals

27th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting Paper

43 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2016 Last revised: 16 Sep 2016

David J. Ashton

University of Bristol - Department of Economics

Pengguo Wang

Xfi, University of Exeter

Date Written: September 15, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, we establish a theoretical relationship between earnings components and future stock returns. It shows the informational role of earnings, cash flows and accruals in predicting future stock returns and the key role played by the earnings response coefficient. It also suggests that the ‘accrual anomaly’ can be explained rationally. Accounting fundamentals jointly determine the covariance risk between uncertain future cash flows and the discount factor: accruals are encompassed as long as there exists differential persistence between cash flows and accruals after controlling for aggregate earnings. In particular, it is the deviation of (scaled) accruals from their long run mean rate that is vital in explaining the ‘accrual anomaly’. Consequently, Sloan (1996) and similar results should not be interpreted as an accrual-based anomaly, instead they document important evidence of the possible fair pricing of accruals.

Keywords: Stock Returns, Earnings Components, the Ball-Brown Analysis, Accrual Anomaly

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Ashton, David John and Wang, Pengguo, The Informational Role and Value Relevance of Earnings, Cash Flows, and Accruals (September 15, 2016). 27th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2801644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2801644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
C Mashruwala , S Rajgopal , T Shevlin
Why is the accrual anomaly not arbitraged away? The role of idiosyncratic risk and transaction costs
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 3 - 33 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Nissim , S Penman
Ratio analysis and equity valuation: from research to practice
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 6 , p. 109 - 154 Posted: 2001
M Ogneva
Accrual quality, realized returns, and expected returns: controlling for cash flow shocks
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 1415 - 1444 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Ohlson
Earnings, book values, and dividends in security valuation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 11 , p. 661 - 687 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,056
RANK
174,026
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies