Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voting over disclosure standards

36 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2016 Last revised: 31 May 2017

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Robert P. Magee

Northwestern University

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Date Written: July 17, 2016

Abstract

This article examines the nature of disclosure standards, under the assumption that (i) standards preferred by more firms are collectively chosen and (ii) privately informed firms prefer standards that increase market perceptions about the value of their assets. A standard is stable if it is preferred by a large enough supermajority of firms over any other standards. Absent any restriction on possible standards, only unanimity would make a standard stable. By contrast, choosing standards that classify news from best to worst, there is at most a single stable standard, and it must be full disclosure. For a large class of distributions over valuations, the required supermajority is about two thirds, close to the majority required in many standard-setting boards. Distributions with heavy tails, such as news that contains extreme risks, require higher super majorities to be stable. These insights are robust to certain settings in which the information is used in decision-making.

Keywords: political, certification, financial accounting, mandatory, policy

JEL Classification: D7, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy and Magee, Robert P. and Schneider, Georg Thomas, Voting over disclosure standards (July 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2810679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2810679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Abigail Allen , Karthik Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Amin H Amershi
A complete analysis of full pareto efficiency in financial markets for arbitrary preferences
Journal of Finance , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 1235 - 1243 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Amin H Amershi , Joel S Demski , Mark A Wolfson
Strategic behavior and regulation research in accounting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 32 Posted: 1982
Crossref
William H Beaver , Joel S Demski
The nature of income measurement
The Accounting Review , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 46 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,003
RANK
230,777
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies