Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Long-Term Incentives to Underperform in the Short Term

38 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2016

James C. Spindler

University of Texas School of Law; McCombs School of Business, University of Texas at Austin

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 18, 2016

Abstract

A firm's manager may choose to underperform in the short-term in order to boost subsequent pay: the apparent value of subsequent incentive compensation is diminished, requiring more overall pay to meet the manager's outside option. A greater weight on short-term compensation can counteract these incentives, provided liquidity constraints do not bind. Shifting to more long-term compensation, such as restricted stock and vesting conditions, generally worsens illiquidity and incentive compatibility problems. An extension considers reporting: managers have an incentive to under-report the firm's value, which can be remedied by granting short-term stock-based compensation.

Suggested Citation:

Spindler, James C., Long-Term Incentives to Underperform in the Short Term (July 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2811320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
V Viral , Kose Acharya , Rangarahan K John , Sundaram
On the Optimality of Resetting Executive Stock Options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 57 , p. 65 - 101 Posted: 2000
Jennifer H Arlen , J William , Carney
Vicarious Liability for Fraud on Securities Markets: Theory and Evidence , p. 691 - 740 Posted: 1992
Lucian A Bebchuk
Written Testimony Before the Committee on Financial Services, US House of Representatives Hearing on Compensation Structure and Systemic Risk Posted: 2009-06-11
Lucian Bebchuk , Chaim Fershtman
The E¤ect of Insider Trading on Insiders'Reaction to Opportunities to "Waste"Corporate Value Posted: 1991-02
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,647
RANK
278,438
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies