Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure and Analyst Forecast

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2016

Konrad Lang

University of Tübingen - Department of Managerial Accounting

Date Written: July 22, 2016

Abstract

Empiricists document that firms more often voluntarily disclose bad news than good news and link this pessimism to managers’ increased incentives not to fall short of earnings expectations. This paper analyzes the voluntary disclosure of a manager’s private information by explicitly considering her incentives to meet or beat an analyst’s earnings forecast. The model predicts that managers who face strong incentives to meet or beat these forecasts more frequently disclose bad news than good news in order to guide analysts’ expectations about future earnings downward. This pessimism is higher in markets with less informed managers and may hold even if the manager has strong incentives for high stock prices and meet-or-beat incentives are comparably low.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Analyst Forecast, Meeting or Beating a Threshold

JEL Classification: D82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Konrad, Voluntary Disclosure and Analyst Forecast (July 22, 2016). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2813815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
J S Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 Posted: 1991
Crossref
A R Admati , P Peiderer
Forcing rms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Improving business reporting -a customer focus: Meeting the information needs of investors and creditors
AICPA Posted: 1994
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The interaction among disclosure, competition between rms, and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,133
RANK
250,789
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies