Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Increasing Enforcement on Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Quality

62 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2016 Last revised: 18 Nov 2018

Ralf Ewert

University of Graz - Institute of Accounting and Auditing

Alfred Wagenhofer

University of Graz

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 17, 2018

Abstract

A widely held assumption in policy making and empirical research is that increasing the strength of public enforcement improves financial reporting quality and audit quality. This paper provides a more nuanced view. In a model with a manager who can manage earnings, a strategic auditor, and an enforcement institution, we show that enforcement and auditing are complements in a weak enforcement regime but can be substitutes in a strong regime. Although stronger enforcement always mitigates earnings management, the effects of different instruments of strengthening enforcement are ambiguous. We show that they can improve or impair financial reporting quality and audit quality, depending on production risk, accounting system characteristics, and the scope of auditing relative to enforcement.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Enforcement, Auditing, Financial Reporting Quality, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: G38, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ewert, Ralf and Wagenhofer, Alfred, Effects of Increasing Enforcement on Financial Reporting Quality and Audit Quality (November 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2815002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Antle
The Auditor as an Economic Agent
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 503 - 527 Posted: 1982
Crossref
S Baiman , J H Evans , And J Noel
Optimal Contracts with a Utility-Maximizing Auditor
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 217 - 244 Posted: 1987
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , And A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Bertomeu , M Darrough , And W Xue
Optimal Conservatism with Earnings Manipulation
Contemporary Accounting Review , volume 34 , p. 252 - 284 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,007
RANK
95,933
10 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies