Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Risk Management, Product Market Competition, and Disclosure

Journal of Financial Intermediation 30, 107-121, April 2017

44 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2016 Last revised: 2 Nov 2017

Daniel Hoang

University of Hohenheim

Martin E. Ruckes

Karlsruhe Institute of Technology

Date Written: July 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper studies the effects of hedge disclosure requirements on corporate risk management and product market competition. The analysis is based on a model of market entry and shows that to prevent entry incumbent firms engage in risk management when these activities remain unobserved by outsiders. In the resulting equilibrium, financial markets are well informed and entry is efficient. However, potential attempts for more transparency by additional disclosure requirements introduce a commitment device that provides incumbents with incentives to distort risk management activities thereby influencing entrant beliefs. In equilibrium, firms engage in significant risk-taking. This behavior limits entry and adversely affects the nature of competition in industries.

Keywords: Risk Management, Hedge Disclosures, Transparency, Market Entry, Signal Jamming

JEL Classification: D82, G30, G32, L1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Daniel and Ruckes, Martin E., Corporate Risk Management, Product Market Competition, and Disclosure (July 1, 2016). Journal of Financial Intermediation 30, 107-121, April 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2817232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
M Abramowitz , I A Stegun
Handbook of Mathematical Functions: With Formulas, Graphs, and Mathematical Rables Posted: 1972
T Adam , S Dasgupta , S Titman
Financial Constraints, Competition, and Hedging in Industry Equilibrium
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 2445 - 2473 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P Aghion , P Bolton
Contracts as a Barrier to Entry
American Economic Review , volume 3 , p. 388 - 401 Posted: 1987
P Aghion , R Blundell , R Gri¢ Th , P Howitt , S Prantl
Entry and Productivity Growth: Evidence from Microlevel Panel Data
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 2 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 265 - 276 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,174
RANK
223,562
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies