Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservative Accounting, Audit Quality, and Litigation

42 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2016 Last revised: 28 Nov 2020

Sebastian Kronenberger

University of Mannheim; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 23, 2020

Abstract

Investors are much more likely to sue corporations and their auditors for overstated earnings reports than for understated reports. This asymmetry in litigation exposure is viewed as an important driver for conservative accounting practices in corporations because conservatism reduces the probability of overstatements and hence investor litigation. This argument is incomplete, however, because it ignores that litigation concerns also affect the incentives of the auditor, which, in turn, affect the firm's optimal reporting system. We find that the threat of litigation encourages firms to report more conservatively only when the cost of auditing is relatively high, but promotes less conservative reporting when the cost of auditing is low.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, Litigation, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Kronenberger, Sebastian and Laux, Volker, Conservative Accounting, Audit Quality, and Litigation (November 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2818038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2818038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
J. Accounting Econom , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J Bertomeu , M Darrough , W Xue
Optimal conservatism with earnings manipulation
Contemporary Accounting Res , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 252 - 284 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Caskey , V Laux
Corporate governance, accounting conservatism, and manipulation
Management Sci , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 424 - 437 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
J. Accounting Econom , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
802
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,525
RANK
70,755
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies