Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contracting with Opportunistic Partners: An Incomplete Contracts Approach

AAA 2017 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting

40 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2016

Pablo Casas-Arce

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Thomas Kittsteiner

RWTH Aachen University - School of Business and Economics

Francisco de Asis Martinez-Jerez

Cornell University; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: April 15, 2016

Abstract

After a contract is signed, contracting partners may engage in opportunistic behavior that circumvents the original intention of the agreement governing their business relationship (i.e. complying with the letter but not the spirit of the contract). We use an incomplete contracts approach to show that the anticipation and observability of such behavior are typically not enough to prevent it when parties can renegotiate contractual outcomes. This is because contractually specified incentives inevitably have conflicting effects: they simultaneously increase the likelihood of welfare-improving investments and welfare-reducing opportunistic behavior. The possibility of opportunism thus limits the effectiveness of contractual incentives and may call for simpler (less complete) rather than more complete contractual solutions. We provide general conditions for the optimality of incomplete contracts, a simple characterization of the second-best contract, and some comparative statics. We also discuss implications for vertical integration and make versus buy decisions.

Keywords: Incomplete contracts; Opportunism; Supply chain

JEL Classification: D23, J41, K12, L20

Suggested Citation:

Casas-Arce, Pablo and Kittsteiner, Thomas and Martinez-Jerez, Francisco de Asis, Contracting with Opportunistic Partners: An Incomplete Contracts Approach (April 15, 2016). AAA 2017 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2823799 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2823799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Philippe Aghion , Patrick Bolton
An Incomplete Contracts Approach to Financial Contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Philippe Aghion , Mathias Dewatripont , Patrick Rey
Renegotiation Design With Unverifiable Information
Econometrica , volume 62 , p. 257 - 282 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Anil Arya , Joel Demski , Jonathan Glover , Pierre Liang
Quasi-Robust Multiagent Contracts
Management Science , volume 55 , p. 752 - 762 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Anil Arya , Brian Mittendorf , David E M Sappington
The Make-or-Buy Decision in the Presence of a Rival: Strategic Outsorcing to a Common Supplier
Management Science , volume 54 , p. 1747 - 1758 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,258
RANK
398,904
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies