Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Obtaining Informationally Consistent Decisions When Computing Costs with Limited Information

Production and Operations Management 26 (2): 211-230

41 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2016 Last revised: 17 Oct 2018

Vic Anand

Texas State University, San Marcos - Department of Accounting

Ramji Balakrishnan

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Date Written: August 18, 2016

Abstract

We demonstrate the need to view in a dynamic context any decision based on limited information. We focus on the use of product costs in selecting the product portfolio. We show how ex post data regarding the actual costs from implementing the decision leads to updating of product cost estimates and potentially trigger a revision of the initial decision. We model this updating process as a discrete dynamical system (DDS). We define a decision as informationally consistent if it is a fixed-point solution to the DDS. We employ numerical analysis to characterize the existence and properties of such solutions. We find that fixed points are rare, but that simple heuristics find them often and quickly. We demonstrate the usefulness and robustness of our methodology by examining the interaction of limited information with multiple decision rules (heuristics) and problem features (size of product portfolio, profitability of product markets). We discuss implications for research on cost systems.

Keywords: Costing Systems, Numerical Experiment, Cost Accounting, Heuristics, Dynamical Systems

JEL Classification: M41, M11, D24, C63, C62

Suggested Citation:

Anand, Vic and Balakrishnan, Ramji and Labro, Eva, Obtaining Informationally Consistent Decisions When Computing Costs with Limited Information (August 18, 2016). Production and Operations Management 26 (2): 211-230, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2827089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2827089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,993
RANK
534,717
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies