Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Internal Control Reporting Regulation on Control Quality, Compensation and Audit Effort

55 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2016 Last revised: 15 Jun 2018

Derek Chan

University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 31, 2018

Abstract

New internal control reporting (ICR) requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) imposed affirmative duties on managers and auditors to evaluate and attest to the effectiveness of internal controls. This paper studies the role of ICR regulation in alleviating accounting manipulation. My basic model with one firm emphasizes the strategic interaction between internal control and external audit in its detection, as well as the stewardship and valuation roles of accounting information in financial reporting. I investigate whether and why ICR requirements under SOX can enhance incentives for internal control quality and audit effort, and make predictions regarding their effects on audit failure rate, manager's expected compensation, audit fee and current owner's expected payoff. An extension to a multi-firm setting suggests that ICR regulation can improve social welfare in the presence of an endogenous norm of internal control quality.

Keywords: internal control, fraudulent misstatement, incentive contract, auditing, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Derek K., The Effects of Internal Control Reporting Regulation on Control Quality, Compensation and Audit Effort (May 31, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2831911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2831911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
R Antle
The Auditor as an Economic Agent
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 503 - 527 Posted: 1982
Crossref
A Arens , J
Loebbecke Applications of Statistical Sampling to Auditing Posted: 1981
Somdutta Basu , Korok Ray
Limits to Auditor Reputational Incentives
Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2798238 Pages: 39 Posted: 21 Jun 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Beneish , M Billings , And L Hodder
Internal Control Weaknesses and Information Uncertainty
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 665 - 703 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
498
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,226
RANK
130,317
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies