Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securitization with Implicit Recourse: Some thoughts on the Economic Rationale

The Journal of Structured Finance, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 35-44, 2013

https://doi.org/10.3905/jsf.2014.19.4.035

Posted: 21 May 2019

Marcus Sidki

Ludwigshafen University of Applied Sciences / Center for Public and Nonprofit Enterprises

Date Written: August 22, 2013

Abstract

Asset-backed securitization transactions that are structured to achieve a true sale of the underlying assets, i.e. a legal change of ownership, are usually performed “non-recourse.” However, many securitization transactions show signs of implicit recourse, i.e., the granting of non-contractual stipulated support activities of a transaction provided by the originator. The motivation to act as such lies in the originator’s moral hazard to retain his reputation and capital market access. While such measures are officially illegal and regulators stipulate disciplinary consequences, they often tend to ignore such actions. This article analyzes the economic rationale behind the phenomenon of granting implicit recourse in ”non-recourse” securitizations. First, an overview of multiple empirical research shows evidence for the existence of implicit recourse activities in general and even some economic advantages of such measures. Next, a theoretical model based on Benveniste and Berger [1987] shows that recourse can add value to capital market efficiency, because it mitigates the problem of information asymmetry that occurs when financial intermediaries sell theirs assets. Implicit recourse in securitization transactions might also help to better allocate risk among capital market investors. These theoretical and empirical considerations help us understand the functionality of securitization and of the capital market and its participants.

Keywords: Securitization, Structured Finance, Recourse

JEL Classification: G21, G32, K2

Suggested Citation:

Sidki, Marcus, Securitization with Implicit Recourse: Some thoughts on the Economic Rationale (August 22, 2013). The Journal of Structured Finance, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 35-44, 2013, https://doi.org/10.3905/jsf.2014.19.4.035, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2842179
 Not Available for Download
13 References
Lawrence M Benveniste , A N Berger
Securitization with Recourse: An Instrument that Offers Uninsured Bank Depositors Sequential Claims
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 403 - 424 Posted: 1987
Interagency Guidance on Implicit Recourse in Asset Securitizations". Supervision and Regulation Letters SR , p. 2 - 15 Posted: 2002
Charles W Calomiris , J R Mason
Credit Card Securitization and Regulatory Arbitrage
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Douglas W Diamond
Financial Intermediation and Delegated Monitoring
Review of Economic Studies , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 393 - 414 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,379
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies