Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Disclosure Rule, Private Benefits of Control and Efficient Liquidation

51 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2016 Last revised: 6 May 2021

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Ming Yang

UCL

Date Written: February 8, 2021

Abstract

We study optimal accounting rules that alleviate inefficiencies caused by managerial private benefits. Accounting signals generated by the accounting rules guide the liquidation/continuation decision in the intermediate period. The entrepreneur enjoys private benefits from continuation, which may induce inefficient decisions. The regulator designs the accounting rule to alleviate potential inefficiencies. The optimal rule is characterized by a threshold, with a higher threshold representing more conservative accounting. The first-best is always achieved under small private benefits. For large private benefits, first-best is not achievable, and the threshold decreases in private benefits. Our result suggests that higher managerial private benefits call for less conservative disclosure rules. This is because higher private benefits require a more informative bad news signal for the manager to terminate. We show that more conservative accounting rules are associated with, but not the cause of, more efficient investment decisions.

Keywords: disclosure, agency problem, private benefit, security design, accounting conservatism

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Xu and Yang, Ming, Optimal Disclosure Rule, Private Benefits of Control and Efficient Liquidation (February 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2857446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2857446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Evidence on the role of accounting conservatism in monitoring managers' investment decisions
Accounting & Finance , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 609 - 633 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C S Armstrong , D A Taylor , R E Verrecchia
Asymmetric reporting
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 32 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The Interaction Between Decision and Control Problems and the Value of Information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
A Arya , J Glover
Option value to waiting created by a control problem
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
XU JIANG , BAOHUA XIN , YAN XIONG
The Value of Mandatory Certification: A Real Effects Perspective
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 377 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Fernando Penalva , Alfred Wagenhofer
Conservatism in Debt Contracting: Theory and Empirical Evidence
48 Pages · Posted: 3 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 463
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tong Lu , Lijun Ruan
Coordination and Conservatism
18 Pages · Posted: 19 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 12 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 83
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,692
RANK
264,473
3 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies