Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Product Market Concerns When Timing of Irreversible Corporate Investment is a Signal

41 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2016

Christian Rix-Nielsen

University of Southern Denmark (SDU Business School); Copenhagen Business School (CBS)

Date Written: November 14, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to include product market concerns to state-of-the-art analysis of real options under asymmetric information. Morellec and Schürhoff (2011) introduced a model with one-sided asymmetric information refuting the value of investment timing flexibility. This paper argues that in applications, multi-sided informational setups will often prevail due to e.g. product market concerns, and that using the one-sided setup in such applications, falsely erodes the value of investment timing flexibility. The paper contributes with novel justification of valuing flexibility by recognizing the potential value of keeping private information private due to e.g. the competition-induced cost of revealing information.

Keywords: Private information, product market concerns, real option valuation, investment timing

JEL Classification: G32, M41, G14, D80

Suggested Citation:

Rix-Nielsen, Christian, The Importance of Product Market Concerns When Timing of Irreversible Corporate Investment is a Signal (November 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2869016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2869016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
C Bustamante
The Dynamics of Going Public. The Review of Finance , volume 16 , p. 577 - 618 Posted: 2012
S Chan , G Gau , Wang , K
Stock Market Reaction to Capital Investment Decisions: Evidence from Business Relocations
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 30 , p. 81 - 100 Posted: 1995
Crossref
I K Cho , D Kreps
Signaling Games and Stable Equilibria
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 102 , p. 179 - 221 Posted: 1987
Crossref
K Chung , P Wright , C Charoenwong
Investment Opportunities and Market Reaction to Capital Expenditure Decisions
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 22 , p. 41 - 60 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,405
RANK
601,090
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies