Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Toward a General Equilibrium Theory of Financial Reporting

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-7

35 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2017 Last revised: 11 Jan 2023

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Edwige Cheynel

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

We present a model in which investment capacity is re-allocated in response to aggregate shocks and examine the resulting general equilibrium effects. The theory predicts a positive association between aggregate liquidity shocks, cost of capital, and conservative accounting. When capital becomes scarce, the accounting system is designed to preserve collateral, which depletes the supply of traded capital and leads to a higher cost of capital. The economy may respond to small shocks with large (discontinuous) readjustments in financial reporting policies, cost of capital, and investment activity. We show that accounting policies set by firms to increase their market value may imply multiple equilibria, with self-fulfilling inefficient equilibria exhibiting excessive collateral requirements and reduced aggregate investment.

Keywords: financial accelerator, accounting, general equilibrium, investment, conservatism

JEL Classification: D2, D5, D6, G01, G1, G2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy and Cheynel, Edwige, Toward a General Equilibrium Theory of Financial Reporting (January 1, 2023). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2893544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2893544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Kenneth J Arrow , Leonid Hurwicz
On the stability of the competitive equilibrium , p. 522 - 552 Posted: 1958
Arya , Jonathan C Anil , K Glover , Sivaramakrishnan
Interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
Snehal Banerjee , Iván Marinovic , Kevin Smith
Disclosing to informed traders
Journal of Finance Posted: 2022
Ben S Bernanke
The federal reserve and the financial crisis
The Federal Reserve and the Financial Crisis Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
380
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,744
RANK
178,651
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies