Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investments and Risk Transfers

The Accounting Review, 2017, Volume 92(6)

51 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2017 Last revised: 6 Feb 2018

Tim Baldenius

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: March 4, 2011

Abstract

We demonstrate a novel link between relationship-specific investments and risk in a setting where division managers operate under moral hazard and collaborate on joint projects. Specific investments increase efficiency at the margin. This expands the scale of operations and thereby adds to the compensation risk borne by the managers. Accounting for this investment/risk link overturns key findings from prior incomplete contracting studies. We find that, if the investing manager has full bargaining power vis-a-vis the other manager, he will underinvest relative to the benchmark of contractible investments; with equal bargaining power, however, he may overinvest. The reason is that the investing manager internalizes only his own share of the investment-induced risk premium (we label this a "risk transfer"), whereas the principal internalizes both managers' incremental risk premia. We show that high pay-performance sensitivity (PPS) reduces the managers' incentives to invest in relationship-specific assets. The optimal PPS thus trades off investment and effort incentives.

Keywords: incomplete contracting, hold-up, risk externalities, overinvestment, pay performance sensitivity (PPS)

JEL Classification: D86, M52, D02

Suggested Citation:

Baldenius, Tim and Michaeli, Beatrice, Investments and Risk Transfers (March 4, 2011). The Accounting Review, 2017, Volume 92(6), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2902994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of Control System Design in Divisionalized Firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Anctil , S Dutta
Negotiated Transfer Pricing and Divisional vs. Firm-Wide Performance Evaluation
The Accounting Review , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Armstrong , D Larcker , G Ormazabal , D Taylor
The Relation Between Equity Incentives and Misreporting: The Role of Risk-Taking Incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Input Markets and the Strategic Organization of the Firm
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 97 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,161
RANK
190,939
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies