Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Discretion and Feedback Effect

63 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2017 Last revised: 16 Dec 2019

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Evgeny Petrov

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: December 6, 2019

Abstract

Stock price often provides firms with new information, which can be used in the firms' subsequent real decisions. While prior studies focus on the ex-ante choice of disclosure in the presence of this feedback effect, we study how the feedback affects a myopic manager's incentive to bias the financial report after observing a private signal about the firm value. We also examine how such reporting discretions, allowed by accounting standards, affect the firm's price and value. We find that the manager overstates the accounting report more in the presence of feedback, but this bias brings forth on average both positive price and real effects for the firm. Intuitively, biasing the report encourages information production in the market because it leaves the speculator's privately acquired information more valuable for her trading. Her private information is revealed to the firm manager at the time of trading, and improves investment efficiency when used in the firm's subsequent investment decisions. However, the benefits due to feedback effect could disappear if there is a sufficiently high penalty associated with reporting bias for the firm.

Keywords: Feedback effect, misreporting, earnings management, real effects

JEL Classification: G3, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Petrov, Evgeny, Reporting Discretion and Feedback Effect (December 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2912505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2912505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Are unmanaged earnings always better for shareholders? Accounting Horizons (supplement , p. 111 - 116 Posted: 2003
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Oligopoly, disclosure, and earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1191 - 1214 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Benhabib , X Liu , P Wang
Endogenous information acquisition and countercyclical uncertainty
Journal of Economic Theory , issue 165 , p. 601 - 642 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Beyer
Financial analysts' forecast revisions and managers' reporting behavior
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , p. 334 - 348 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,290
RANK
248,977
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies