Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loyalty Program Liabilities and Point Values

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 17-20

39 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2017 Last revised: 1 Aug 2018

So Yeon Chun

INSEAD - Technology and Operations Management

Dan Iancu

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Nikolaos Trichakis

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: February 27, 2017

Abstract

Problem definition. Loyalty programs (LP) introduce a new currency---the points---through which customers transact with firms. Such points represent a promise for future service, and their monetary value thus counts as a liability on the issuing firms' balance sheets. Consequently, adjusting the value of points has a first order effect on profitability and performance, and emerges as a core operating decision. We study the problem of optimally setting the points' value in view of their associated liabilities.

Academic / Practical Relevance: Firms across numerous industries increasingly utilize LPs. The sheer magnitude of LPs coupled with recent changes in accounting rules have turned the associated liabilities into significant balance sheet items, amounting to billions of dollars. Managers (from CFOs to CMOs) struggle with the problem of adjusting the points' value in view of these liabilities. Academic work is primarily aimed at understanding LPs as marketing tools, without studying the liability angle.

Methodology. We develop a multi-period model and use dynamic programming techniques and comparative statics analysis.

Results: We show that the optimal policies depend on a new financial metric, given by the sum of the firm's realized cash flows and outstanding deferred revenue, which we refer to as the {\it profit potential}. The total value of loyalty points is set to hit a particular target, which increases with the profit potential. We find that loyalty programs can act as buffers against uncertainty, with the value of points increasing (decreasing) under strong (weak) operating performance, and increasing with uncertainty.

Managerial Implications: Setting the point values and adjusting operating decisions in view of LP liabilities should be done by tracking the firm's profit potential. Loyalty programs can act as hedging tools against uncertainty in future operating performance, which provides a new rationale for their existence, even in the absence of competition.

Keywords: Dynamic programming, Operations-Accounting-finance Interface, Loyalty (reward) program, Profit, Liability

Suggested Citation:

Chun, So Yeon and Iancu, Dan and Trichakis, Nikolaos, Loyalty Program Liabilities and Point Values (February 27, 2017). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 17-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2924480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2924480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
P Afeche , M Araghi , O Baron
Introduction to special issue on marketing and operations management interfaces and coordination Posted: 2015
S Aflaki , I Popescu
Managing retention in service relationships
Mngm. Science , volume 60 , p. 415 - 433 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Open letter to Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew
AHLA Posted: 2014
Alaska Airlines
Alaska Airlines 10K form for Posted: 2008
Load more
7 Citations
Andre P. Calmon , Florin D. Ciocan , Gonzalo Romero
Revenue Management with Repeated Customer Interactions
Management Science Posted: 2020
Crossref
So Yeon Chun , Anton Ovchinnikov
Strategic Consumers, Revenue Management, and the Design of Loyalty Programs
Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2606791 · 46 Pages · Posted: 18 May 2015 · Last revised: 24 Jun 2018 · Downloads: 979
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jiao Wang , Lima Zhao , Arnd Huchzermeier
Operations‐Finance Interface in Risk Management: Research Evolution and Opportunities
Production and Operations Management , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 355 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Yao Cui , A. Yeşim Orhun , Izak Duenyas
How Price Dispersion Changes When Upgrades Are Introduced: Theory and Empirical Evidence from the Airline Industry
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 8 , p. 3835 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,169
RANK
132,557
7 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies