Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Profits: The Rise of Dual-Purpose Organizations and Its Consequences for Disclosure

40 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2017

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: April 16, 2017

Abstract

Recognizing the role and value of diverse stakeholders, firms pursing a "beyond profit" agenda are becoming increasingly common. This paper studies such hybrid entities - firms that value the profits they create as well as the surpluses generated for consumers - and details their implications for industry disclosure practices. The findings demonstrate that disclosure incentives are perturbed not just for the hybrid firms but also for traditional profit-maximizing rival firms, and information revealed can be both self-serving and altruistic. Accounting for production and information consequences, the paper then assesses whether an emphasis on consumer welfare that a hybrid entity brings can itself be a strategic ploy aimed at profit maximization, rather than merely a statement of goodwill.

JEL Classification: C72

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Mittendorf, Brian and Ramanan, Ram, Beyond Profits: The Rise of Dual-Purpose Organizations and Its Consequences for Disclosure (April 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2953743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2953743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
M Alles , S Datar
Strategic transfer pricing
Management Science , volume 44 , issue 4 , p. 451 - 461 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Using disclosure to in ‡uence herd behavior and alter competition
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 231 - 246 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Bene…ts of channel discord in the sale of durable goods
Marketing Science , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 96 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Oligopoly, disclosure, and earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1191 - 1214 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
649
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,780
RANK
93,293
14 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies