Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation Harm or Benefit Non-Big 4 Audit Firms? An Analytical Investigation

54 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2017 Last revised: 30 Jan 2020

Christopher Bleibtreu

BI Norwegian Business School

Ulrike Stefani

University of Konstanz - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 11, 2019

Abstract

Because mandatory audit firm rotation (MAR) limits the economic rents earned from a client, regulators regard MAR as a means to address the threat of impaired auditor independence. Moreover, regulators expect that MAR increases the dynamism of the audit market and decreases the market shares of the Big 4 audit firms. However, especially the expectation regarding the effects of MAR on the audit market is very controversial. This paper uses an analytical model that accounts for the endogenous auditor-client matching to examine this topic. The results indicate that MAR weakens the Big 4 audit firms’ market dominance only if the non-Big 4 audit firms’ market shares before the implementation of MAR are sufficiently large. If, in contrast, the non-Big 4 initially have small market shareswhich is the empirical observation for most national audit markets and segments the implementation of MAR further increases concentration. Additionally, MAR does not achieve the intended reduction in client importance for the Big 4 or the non-Big 4 audit firms with initially small market shares. The results show that the effects of MAR on market concentration and client importance are not clear-cut, but crucially depend on the market structure that is prevalent before the regulation’s implementation.

Keywords: audit market concentration, auditor-client matching, client importance, mandatory audit firm rotation, market-matching model

JEL Classification: D43, L11, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bleibtreu, Christopher and Stefani, Ulrike, Does Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation Harm or Benefit Non-Big 4 Audit Firms? An Analytical Investigation (October 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2981659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2981659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
B Arruñada , C Paz-Ares
Mandatory rotation of company auditors: A critical examination
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Balasubramanian
Mail versus mall: A strategic analysis of competition between direct marketers and conventional retailers
Marketing Science , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 181 - 195 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S P Bandyopadhyay , J L Kao
Competition and Big 6 brand name reputation: Evidence from the Ontario municipal audit market
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 64 Posted: 2001
Crossref
I G Basioudis , J R Francis
Big 4 audit fee premiums for national and office-level industry leadership in the United Kingdom
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 166 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,146
RANK
151,887
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies