Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Traits, Accounting Conservatism and the Delegation of Financial Reporting

HEC Paris Research Paper No. FIN-2017-1215

35 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2019

Francois Larmande

Université de Sherbrooke

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: September 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the delegation of financial reporting policy to a manager as a shareholder commitment device to achieve an ex-ante preferred level of conservatism. It especially explores how managerial traits – specifically the level of risk aversion and overconfidence – facilitate efficient implementation of the preferred level of conservatism. The potential benefit of a conservative reporting policy has been demonstrated in the literature, but if firms have some freedom to set the level of conservatism and it is not perfectly observable, the enforcement of a commitment to conservative reporting could be a concern (firms may claim to be conservative while in fact being aggressive). Therefore, the delegation of the reporting policy and the design of an appropriate incentive scheme could be a possible commitment device. We present a model in which to obtain better funding terms, a firm has an ex-ante preference for a given level of conservatism. Hiring a more risk-averse manager lowers the cost of implementing a conservative reporting policy, but increases the agency cost linked to the productive effort. We show that, for a plausible range of parameter values, the optimal level of managerial risk aversion which minimizes the overall agency cost is increasing with respect to the level of conservatism the firm wants to induce. Similar results hold for the degree of overconfidence – in the opposite direction: the optimal level of overconfidence is decreasing with respect to the desired level of conservatism. These results suggest an alternative explanation for recent empirical evidence linking CEO and CFO characteristics to the level of conservatism: firms deliberately choose managers with specific personality traits for efficient implementation of shareholders’ ex-ante preferred level of conservatism.

Keywords: Accounting conservatism, risk aversion, overconfidence, reporting policy, investment efficiency, commitment

JEL Classification: D82, D86, G30, M41, M51, M52

Suggested Citation:

Larmande, Francois and Stolowy, Hervé, Managerial Traits, Accounting Conservatism and the Delegation of Financial Reporting (September 1, 2019). HEC Paris Research Paper No. FIN-2017-1215, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2993124 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2993124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Delegating disclosure and production choices
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 3 , p. 825 - 857 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,243
RANK
154,735
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies