Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is There More Voluntary Disclosure if Investors are Better Informed?

26 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2017

Michael Ebert

University of Paderborn

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, the interaction between the investor’s knowledge about a manager’s information endowment interacts and their ability to gauge the manager’s exact information content upon voluntary disclosure is studied. If investors are unable to discern anything beyond the manager’s information endowment, the probability that the investor is well informed correlates positively with the probability of voluntary disclosure. However, in lieu of extant research we find that, if investors are able to ascertain the manager’s private information as well as the information endowment, the results are opposite: the probability of non-disclosure as the probability that investors are well-informed increases. The results have implications for both empirical researchers and regulators: They show that the incentives for voluntary disclosure provided by rational expectations are highly sensitive to the levels of sophistication of the investors or the informational environment in a given market–in highly sophisticated markets we expect to see relatively little voluntary disclosure by firms because they don’t have to fear adverse reactions to non-disclosure.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, investor sophistication, information endowment

JEL Classification: M41, D82, C02

Suggested Citation:

Ebert, Michael and Schneider, Georg Thomas, Is There More Voluntary Disclosure if Investors are Better Informed? (December 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2996194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
B J Bushee , J E Core , W Guay , S J Hamm
The Role of the Business Press as an Information Intermediary
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C.-W Chen , C Pantzalis , J C Park
Press coverage and stock price deviation from fundamental value
The Journal of Financial Research , volume 36 , p. 175 - 214 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Chen , P De , Y Hu , B.-H Hwang
Wisdom of Crowds: The Value of Stock Opinions Transmitted Through Social Media
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , p. 1367 - 1403 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Dye
Disclosure of Nonproprietary Information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , p. 123 - 145 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,911
RANK
377,290
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies