Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When do firms use one set of books in an international tax compliance game?

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-08

46 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2017 Last revised: 15 Sep 2021

Rebecca Reineke

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Katrin Weiskirchner-Merten

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Finance, Accounting & Statistics

Stefan Wielenberg

Leibniz Universität Hannover

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 7, 2021

Abstract

This study examines how a strategic tax auditor affects a multinational firm's transfer pricing in a tax compliance game. Our model uses a divisionalized firm, in both a low-tax and a high-tax country, that decides to implement a transfer-pricing regime with either one or two sets of books. After observing its unit costs, the firm reports a compliant or non-compliant tax transfer price. In a regime with one set of books, the single transfer price coordinates the quantity decision and determines the tax payments. In a regime with two sets, different transfer prices serve those tasks. In contrast to previous studies, our analysis incorporates a strategic tax auditor, who observes the tax transfer price and decides whether to audit the firm. Real-world regulations suggest larger penalties for detected non-compliance under a two-sets-of-books transfer-pricing regime. Our analysis identifies the mixed strategy equilibria and examines how variations in the tax regulation - the tax rate difference and the penalty difference - affect the firm's tax aggressiveness. We show that a firm acts less tax aggressively with a higher tax rate difference. Additionally, the model predicts that the firm either increases or decreases the probability of keeping one set of books for a smaller penalty difference.

Keywords: transfer pricing, two sets of books, one set of books, strategic tax auditor

JEL Classification: H26, H87, M42

Suggested Citation:

Reineke, Rebecca and Weiskirchner-Merten, Katrin and Wielenberg, Stefan, When do firms use one set of books in an international tax compliance game? (September 7, 2021). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3012231 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3012231
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Pricing internal trade to get a leg up on external rivals
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 709 - 731 Posted: 2008
T Baldenius , N D Melumad , S Reichelstein
Integrating managerial and tax objectives in transfer pricing
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 591 - 615 Posted: 2004
S.-E Bärsch , J H Heckemeyer , M Olbert
Transfer pricing and the decision-making authority of the tax function in multinational companies Posted: 2019
J L Blouin , L A Robinson , J K Seidman
Conflicting transfer pricing incentives and the role of coordination
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 116 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,670
RANK
355,741
2 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies