Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Net-Outcome Contracting with Applications to Equity-Based Compensation

49 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2017 Last revised: 23 Jul 2021

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Steven J. Huddart

Pennsylvania State University, University Park - Department of Accounting

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Date Written: July 19, 2021

Abstract

Options, restricted stock, bonuses tied to total shareholder return, and similar equity-based compensation contracts stipulate payments that depend on stock price. Any such contract is a function of shareholder value net of the compensation payment, because stock price (1) is proportional to this net value or “net outcome” and (2) anticipates compensation-related payments and dilution. The net outcome, in turn, is reduced by the payment and so depends on the contract. Standard moral hazard analyses, wherein contractual payments are based on the gross outcome before any payment to the agent, overlook this dependency. We characterize the optimal net-outcome contract, describe its shape and pay-for-performance sensitivity, contrast it to the optimal gross-outcome contract, and discuss implications for equity-based compensation arrangements.

Keywords: dilution, equity-based compensation, moral hazard, team compensation, optimal contracting, pay-for-performance sensitivity, security holdings, stock options

JEL Classification: D86, J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Christian and Huddart, Steven J. and Pfeiffer, Thomas, An Analysis of Net-Outcome Contracting with Applications to Equity-Based Compensation (July 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3014149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Elon Musk could make more than $50 billion from pay plan shareholders approved
Tesla Posts Fourth-Consecutive Quarterly Profit, Defying Pandemic Shutdown Posted: 2018-03-21
Jorge , Manuel Santos
708 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.30, an option to buy 426,892 shares of convertible (upon an IPO) preferred stock at a purchase price of $2.3425 per share, and an annual salary of $250,000
of the Google Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 annual meeting of shareholders , volume 331 , p. 813 - 837 Posted: 2005
Dirk E Black , Shane S Dikolli , Christian Hofmann , Thomas Pfeiffer
Estimating the Sensitivity of CEO Pay to Accounting-based Performance: Gross versus Net Measures Posted: 2021
Robert M Bushman , J Raffi , Indjejikian
Accounting Income, Stock Price, and Managerial Compensation
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 16 , issue 1-3 , p. 3 - 23 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,675
RANK
289,981
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies