Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Perspective on the Benefits of Slack Building Under Participative Budgeting

62 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2017 Last revised: 1 Dec 2018

Michael Kopel

University of Graz

Christian Riegler

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

In contrast to authoritative budgeting, participative budgeting may improve the superior's knowledge and increase the subordinate's motivation, but often comes at the costs of padding budgets and slack building. Consequently, most analytical studies identify slack as one of the major costs of participative budgeting that signifcantly reduce its benefits. Despite these research findings, participative budgeting is widely used in corporate practice. In this paper, we identify a beneficial effect of participative budgeting that has been neglected so far in analytical accounting research. In particular, we argue that slack might have benefits for the firm if the impact of participative budgeting on the firm's supply side is taken into account. We employ a tractable adverse selection model to capture the interactions between budgetary slack and decisions made inside the firm with the firm's choice of production quantity and the supplier's input price decision. We demonstrate that slack building induces an increase in the costs of production, but at the same time might soften supplier pricing. Overall, the interplay between frictions within the firm that are due to agency problems and the supplier's pricing response crucially affect the firm's choice of participative budgeting over authoritative budgeting. The main insight of our paper is that an exclusive focus on intra-firm aspects of budgeting might miss important effects of participative budgeting. It seems fruitful to consider the interaction between external stakeholders and a firm's budgeting approach in future empirical research.

Keywords: Participative Budgeting; Organizational slack; Budget padding; Input Pricing

Suggested Citation:

Kopel, Michael and Riegler, Christian and Schneider, Georg Thomas, A New Perspective on the Benefits of Slack Building Under Participative Budgeting (December 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3014881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3014881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Arora , P Alam
CEO Compensation and Stakeholders Claims
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Interacting Supply Chain Distortions: The Pricing of Internal Transfers and External Procurement
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , p. 551 - 580
Crossref
A A Atkinson , R S Kaplan , E M Matsumura , S Young
Management Accounting Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,639
RANK
187,924
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies