Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fundamental (versus Market) Risk and Capital Budgeting Decisions: Distinguishing between the Investment Hurdle Rate and the Cost of Capital

37 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2017

Guochang Zhang

University of Hong Kong

Date Written: June 2017

Abstract

Employing a basic model of an economy comprising both the real and financial sectors, I show that the primitive risk measure for real investment decisions is earnings beta — defined as the (normalized) covariance between firm profitability (return on investment) and the aggregate profitability of all firms in the economy, not market beta. Earnings beta determines the risk premium required to convert a project’s risky cash flow to its certainty equivalent and is the basis for setting the hurdle rate for project selection. Earnings beta is also the origin of market beta for asset pricing, but the mapping of earnings beta into market beta is intervened by the profitability level of the underlying project. For a given earnings beta, a firm with higher expected profitability (hence higher market value) has a smaller market beta because investors holding the firm’s stock bear a smaller fraction of total firm risk per unit of investment capital they contribute. I show that the optimal hurdle rate for project selection which maximizes investor wealth is different from the cost of capital concerning a specific project except when the project has zero net present value. Finally, I demonstrate that the standard capital budgeting techniques prescribed in textbooks and widely adopted in practice — which are centered on the notion of market risk rather than fundamental risk — cause suboptimal decisions, and I offer remedies to correct the misvaluation problems.

Keywords: Earnings Beta, Market Beta, Capital Budgeting, Investment Hurdle Rate, Cost of Capital, Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)

JEL Classification: G12, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Guochang, Fundamental (versus Market) Risk and Capital Budgeting Decisions: Distinguishing between the Investment Hurdle Rate and the Cost of Capital (June 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3019270 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3019270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Andrew Abel
Optimal investment under uncertainty
American Economic Review , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 228 - 233 Posted: 1983
Aydogan Alti
How sensitive is investment to cash flow when financing is frictionless
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 707 - 722 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Kenneth Arrow
Optimal capital policy with irreversible investment
Value Posted: 1968
Crossref
William Beaver , James Manegold
The association between marketdetermined and accounting-determined measure of systematic risk: Some further evidence
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 10 , p. 231 - 284 Posted: 1975
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Yunsen Chen , Yao Lu , Dengjin Zheng
Boardroom Centrality and Systematic Risk
48 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 7 May 2020 · Downloads: 337
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
466
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,963
RANK
141,185
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies