Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Relationship-Building and Audit Quality

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

Posted: 18 Aug 2017 Last revised: 4 Jul 2023

Joshua Ronen

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: July 3, 2023

Abstract

This paper presents a model of auditor-client relationship-building (RB). We find that the relation between RB and audit effort is non-monotonic, i.e., it can improve or impair audit effort. On one hand, RB improves the usefulness of exerting effort and the auditor is then motivated to work harder. On the other hand, RB improves the precision of the signal received by the auditor and reduces her expected liability, which reduces her incentive to exert effort. Moreover, existing literature suggests that quasi-rents arising from long auditor tenure compromise auditor independence. In contrast to this conventional wisdom, this paper shows a positive effect of quasi-rents resulting from relationship-building on auditor independence. This is the first study analyzing the impact of client relationship-building initiated by auditors on audit quality. It enhances our understanding of the impact of RB on audit quality.

Keywords: client relationship building; audit effort; audit reporting quality

JEL Classification: M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Ronen, Joshua and Ye, Minlei, Client Relationship-Building and Audit Quality (July 3, 2023). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3021279 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3021279
 Not Available for Download
0 References
4 Citations
Minlei Ye
The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
127 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 10 May 2023 · Downloads: 1,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mingcherng Deng , Xiaoyan Wen
The Role of Internal Control Disclosure in Financial Reporting Precision and the Quality of Audited Financial Reports
Baruch College Zicklin School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-03-01 · 36 Pages · Posted: 4 May 2020 · Last revised: 25 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 115
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christopher Bleibtreu , Ulrike Stefani
Does Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation Harm or Benefit Non-Big 4 Audit Firms? An Analytical Investigation
54 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 30 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 438
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Harold Lopez , Evelyn Patterson , J. Reed Smith , Samuel L. Tiras
The Impact of Mandatory Auditor Rotation on Reported Accruals and Audit Fees
42 Pages · Posted: 23 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 14 May 2025 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,840
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies