Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Pollution Taxes Be Targeted at Income Redistribution?

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6599

46 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2017

Bas Jacobs

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR); Tinbergen Institute; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Rick van der Ploeg

University of Oxford

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 16, 2017

Abstract

This paper analyses optimal corrective taxation and optimal income redistribution. Under general utility functions, the Pigouvian pollution tax is higher if pollution damages disproportionally hurt the poor due to equity weighting of pollution damages. Moreover, optimal pollution taxes should be set below the Pigouvian tax if the poor spend a disproportionate fraction of their income on polluting goods. However, if preferences for commodities are of the Gorman (1961) polar form, optimal pollution taxes should follow the first-best rule for the Pigouvian corrective tax even if the government wants to redistribute income and the poor spend a disproportional part of their income on polluting goods. The often-used quasi-linear, CES and Stone-Geary utility functions all belong to the Gorman polar class. If preferences are Gorman polar, and if pollution taxes are not optimized, Pareto-improving green tax reforms exist that move the pollution tax closer to the Pigouvian tax. Simulations demonstrate that optimal corrective taxes should be Pigouvian if the demand for polluting goods is derived from a LES demand system, but deviate from the Pigouvian taxes if demand for polluting goods demand is derived from a PIGLOG demand system.

Keywords: Redistributive Taxation, Corrective Pollution Taxation, Gorman Polar Form, Stone-Geary Preferences, PIGLOG Preferences, Green Tax Reform

JEL Classification: H210, H230, Q540

Suggested Citation:

Jacobs, Bas and van der Ploeg, Frederick, Should Pollution Taxes Be Targeted at Income Redistribution? (August 16, 2017). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6599, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3032901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3032901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Matthew D. Adler , David Anthoff , Valentina Bosetti , Gregory Garner , Klaus Keller , Nicolas Treich
Priority for the Worse Off and the Social Cost of Carbon
FEEM Working Paper No. 55.2016 Pages: 32 Posted: 27 Aug 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Advani , P Johnson , A Leicester , G Stoye
Household energy use in Britain: A distributional analysis, IFS Report R85, Institute for Fiscal Studies Posted: 2013
R Aigner
Environmental taxation and redistribution concerns
Finanzarchiv , volume 70 , p. 249 - 277 Posted: 2014
Crossref
G Althor , J E M Watson , R A Fuller
Global mismatch between greenhouse gas emissions and the burden of climate change
Nature , volume 6 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies