Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Firm Real Earnings Management

46 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2017

Eti Einhorn

Tel Aviv University

Nisan Langberg

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Tsahi Versano

Tel Aviv University, Coller School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 18, 2017

Abstract

Our analysis is rooted in the notion that stockholders can learn about the fundamental value of any particular firm from observing the earnings reports of its rivals. We argue that such intra-industry information transfers, which have been broadly documented in the empirical literature, may motivate managers to alter stockholders’ beliefs about the value of their firm not only by manipulating their own earnings report but also by influencing the earnings reports of rival firms. Managers obviously do not have access to the accounting system of peer firms, but they can nevertheless influence the earnings reports of rival firms by distorting real transactions that relate to the product market competition. We demonstrate such managerial behavior, which we refer to as cross-firm real earnings management, and explore its potential consequences and its interrelation with the practice of accounting-based earnings management within an industry setting with imperfect (non-proprietary) accounting information.

Suggested Citation:

Einhorn, Eti and Langberg, Nisan and Versano, Tsahi, Cross-Firm Real Earnings Management (September 18, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3039038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3039038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
R K Aggarwal , A S Samwick
Executive Compensation, Strategic Competition, and Relative Performance Evaluation: Theory and Evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E ; E Amir , Einhorn; And I , Kama
The Role of Accounting Disaggregation in Detecting and Mitigating Earnings Management
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , p. 43 - 68 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A ; H Arya , Frimor; And B , Mittendorf
Discretionary Disclosure of Proprietary Information in a Multi-Segment Firm
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A ; J Arya , Glover; And S , Sunder
Earnings Management and the Revelation Principle
Management Science , volume 56 , p. 645 - 58 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,007
RANK
325,744
3 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies