Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentivizing Irreversible Investment

41 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2017 Last revised: 30 Dec 2020

Dmitry Livdan

University of California, Berkeley

Alexander Nezlobin

London School of Economics

Date Written: September 7, 2020

Abstract

Existing dynamic investment models that show that a manager can be incentivized to implement the optimal investment policy rely on the assumption that the firm is operating in an ever-expanding product market. This paper presents an analytically tractable, discrete-time, neoclassical model with irreversible investment and the possibility of unfavorable demand events. We show that even when the principal is uninformed about changes in demand for the firm's output, there exists a performance measurement system that leads to goal congruent investment incentives for the manager. If the principal can observe the unfavorable demand events, then goal congruence can be achieved using very simple accrual accounting rules, such as straight-line depreciation.

Suggested Citation:

Livdan, Dmitry and Nezlobin, Alexander, Incentivizing Irreversible Investment (September 7, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3055506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Abel
Optimal Investment Under Uncertainty
American Economic Review , volume 73 , p. 228 - 233 Posted: 1983
A Abel , A Dixit , J Eberly , R Pindyck
Options, the Value of Capital, and Investment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 111 , p. 753 - 777 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Abel , J Eberly
Optimal Investment with Costly Reversibility
Review of Economic Studies , volume 63 , p. 581 - 593 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Abel , J Eberly
How Q and Cash Flow Affect Investment Without Frictions: An Analytic Explanation
Review of Economic Studies , volume 78 , p. 1179 - 1200 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,011
RANK
244,478
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies