Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Priced Firm-Specific Risk and Accounting Information

17 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2017

David Johnstone

University of Sydney Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

There is a strand of CAPM based analytical research in accounting that uncovers a little known CAPM corollary, namely that the firm's cost of capital is a joint effect of its payoff risk and payoff mean. The CAPM equilibrium mechanism has the effect that the "numerator" (expected payoff) drives its own "denominator" (discount rate). My paper traces the origins of this finding to Fama and Lintner's original CAPM derivation. Although surprising, the role of the mean, and more generally the payoffs expression of CAPM, has deeply interesting and useful connotations for accounting firm-specific information. I expand on those implications and on how they provide an insightful footing for empirical accounting research.

Keywords: accounting information, cost of capital, CAPM

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G31

Suggested Citation:

Johnstone, David, Priced Firm-Specific Risk and Accounting Information (August 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3062960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
+0:5(1 p g
+0:5(1 p b
R A Brealey , S C Myers , F Allen
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2014
E F Fama
Risk adjusted discount rates and capital budgeting under uncertainty
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 5 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,564
RANK
560,264
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies