Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stability and Regime Change: The Evolution of Accounting Standards

The Accounting Review

36 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2017 Last revised: 4 May 2023

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Li Azinovic-Yang

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: September 1, 2019

Abstract

We examine the evolution of accounting regulation by linking disclosure policies
and investments in a dynamic voting model. The disclosure policies are the outcome
of voting by entrepreneurs, whose preferences are influenced by their investments. The investments are in turn endogenously determined by current and future disclosure policies. Absent external influences, accounting regimes are stable. A disclosure regime of high (low) quality and a strong (weak) economy coexist and reinforce each other. However, regulatory interventions can result in regime changes by changing the entrepreneurs’
expectations, even without direct enforcement. Unexpected shocks could also result in regime changes by impacting economic conditions and hence voter composition. Our analysis provides a framework to study the interaction between accounting regulation and firms’ economic decisions.

Keywords: accounting standards, political economy, dynamic voting

JEL Classification: D72, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Azinovic-Yang, Li, Stability and Regime Change: The Evolution of Accounting Standards (September 1, 2019). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3062185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
P Aghion , P Howitt
A model of growth through creative destruction Posted: 1990
U Akcigit , W R Kerr
Growth through heterogeneous innovations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 126 , issue 4 , p. 1374 - 1443 Posted: 2018
A Alesina , D Rodrik
Distributive politics and economic growth
The quarterly journal of economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 465 - 490 Posted: 1994
R Benabou
Inequality and growth
NBER macroeconomics annual , volume 11 , p. 11 - 74 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
600
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,944
RANK
103,177
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies