Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do investors need time to process earnings news before markets open?


54 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2017 Last revised: 26 Dec 2023

Matthew R. Lyle

Goizueta Business School

Andrew Stephan

University of Colorado at Boulder Leeds School of Business

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: July 19, 2021

Abstract

Berkshire Hathaway times the release of its financial information so that shareholders “have adequate time to digest and analyze the information before any trading takes place.” Using pre-open (midnight to 9:30 am) and post-close (4:00 pm to midnight) earnings announcements to identify variation in the time investors have to process news before markets open, we find that pre-open announcements are associated less trading in the first 24 hours after the announcement compared to post-close announcements, consistent with investors using the after-hours period to process earnings news before markets open. In addition, this weaker market reaction to pre-open announcements persists for several trading days after the announcement. Additional analyses reveal that post-close announcements are associated with substantially more analyst revisions and conference calls before markets open and that these alternative information sources contribute to the faster market response to post-close announcements. Our results suggest that, consistent with the Berkshire Hathaway assertion, the time period investors have to process news before markets open is an important factor and affects the speed of the market reaction to the news.


Keywords: Earnings Response Coefficient, Volatility, Earnings Announcements, Disclosure Timing

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G17

Suggested Citation:

Lyle, Matthew R. and Stephan, Andrew and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, Do investors need time to process earnings news before markets open?
(July 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3064160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3064160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
H Berkman , C Truong
Event day 0? after-hours earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 103 Posted: 2009
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
E Boehmer , C M Jones , X Zhang , X Zhang
Tracking retail investor activity
The Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 5 , p. 2249 - 2305 Posted: 2021
B J Bushee
The influence of institutional investors on myopic r&d investment behavior
Accounting review , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,714
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,609
RANK
23,656
5 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies