Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Disclosure, Real Investment, and Shareholder Welfare

32 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2017

Sunil Dutta

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Alexander Nezlobin

London School of Economics

Date Written: November 8, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the preferences of a firm's current and future shareholders for the quality of mandated public disclosures in a dynamic setting with real investments. We find that while the firm's investment monotonically increases in disclosure quality, the welfare of the firm's current shareholders can be maximized by an imperfect disclosure regime. In particular, the current shareholders prefer an intermediate level of public disclosures if (i) the firm's current assets in place are small relative to its future growth opportunities, and either (ii) the firm's investment is observable by the stock market and sufficiently elastic with respect to the cost of capital, or (iii) the firm's investment is not directly observable by the stock market and is sufficiently inelastic with respect to the cost of capital. The firm's future shareholders prefer more precise public disclosures if the firm’s growth rate during their period of ownership is sufficiently high.

Keywords: Investment; Cost of Capital; Information Disclosure; Welfare

JEL Classification: D53; E22; G12; M41

Suggested Citation:

Dutta, Sunil and Nezlobin, Alexander, Information Disclosure, Real Investment, and Shareholder Welfare (November 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3067695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3067695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
C Botosan
Disclosure Level and the Cost of Equity Capital
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 1997
C Botosan , M Plumlee
A Re-Examination of Disclosure Level and the Expected Cost of Equity Capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 21 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Christensen , L De La Rosa , G Feltham
Information and the Cost of Capital: An Ex-Ante Perspective
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 817 - 848 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J B De Long , A Shleifer , L H Summers , R J Waldmann
Noise Trader Risk in Financial Markets
Journal of Political Economy , volume 98 , p. 703 - 738 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Hui Chen , Thomas Pfeiffer
Myopic Capital Market Concerns and Investment Incentives in Business Alliances
Review of Accounting Studies · 49 Pages · Posted: 17 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 23 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 153
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,080
RANK
352,349
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies