Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Signaling in Over-the-Counter Markets: Benefits and Costs of Transparency

40 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2017

Kerry Back

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Ruomeng Liu

University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Alberto Teguia

Rice University, Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business, Students

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 10, 2017

Abstract

We provide a theoretical rationale for dealer objections to ex-post transparency in corporate bond and other OTC markets: Disclosure of the terms of a transaction conveys information possessed by the dealer about the asset quality and reduces the dealer’s rents when she disposes of the inventory in a second transaction. We show that costly signaling in a transparent market benefits investors through lower spreads and higher volume. Dealers may also gain from transparency despite lower spreads when potential gains from trade are small or adverse selection is high, because in those circumstances higher volume offsets smaller spreads for dealer profits.

Keywords: OTC markets, Transparency, Signaling

JEL Classification: G14, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Back, Kerry and Liu, Ruomeng and Teguia, Alberto, Signaling in Over-the-Counter Markets: Benefits and Costs of Transparency (November 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3068930 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3068930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
P Asquith , T Covert , P Pathak
The effects of mandatory transparency in financial market design: Evidence from the corporate bond market. Available at SSRN 2320623 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Vladimir Asriyan , William Martin Fuchs , Brett Green
Information Spillovers in Asset Markets with Correlated Values
American Economic Review, Forthcoming Pages: 36 Posted: 18 Feb 2015 Last revised: 3 May 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Bagnoli , T Bergrstrom
Log-concave probability and its applications
Economic Theory , volume 26 , p. 445 - 469 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Hendrik (Hank) Bessembinder , Stacey E. Jacobsen , William F. Maxwell , Kumar Venkataraman
Capital Commitment and Illiquidity in Corporate Bonds
Journal of Finance, Forthcoming Pages: 68 Posted: 22 Mar 2016 Last revised: 29 Aug 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,550
RANK
107,281
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies