Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Incentives and Audit Quality: Non-audit Services versus Contingent Audit Fees

European Accounting Review

45 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2017 Last revised: 8 Apr 2022

Lucas Mahieux

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: April 5, 2022

Abstract

I develop a model that provides new insights into the consequences of the provision of non-audit services (NAS) by audit firms to audit clients. I also investigate the joint implications of NAS and contingent audit fees (CAF) for audit quality. In the model, litigation and reputation costs do not provide sufficient incentives to auditors to exert audit effort. Investors of client firms may therefore let auditors provide NAS because of an incentive effect. Indeed, the possibility of providing NAS contingent on detecting financial misstatements increases auditors' incentives to exert audit effort. However, the provision of NAS also reduces auditor independence, which may decrease audit quality and in turn render the provision of NAS by auditors undesirable. Thus, my analysis uncovers an interesting tradeoff for regulators between the positive incentive effect and the decrease in auditor independence. Removing the current restrictions on CAF may offset the ex post decrease in audit quality while preserving the ex ante incentives. My analysis also generates a number of testable empirical predictions.

Keywords: Audit quality, Auditor independence, Contingent audit fees, Incentives, Non-audit services

JEL Classification: D82, D86, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mahieux, Lucas, Auditors' Incentives and Audit Quality: Non-audit Services versus Contingent Audit Fees (April 5, 2022). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3071411 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3071411
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
D Acemoglu , M Gietzmann
Auditor Independence, Incomplete Contracts and the Role of Legal Liability
European Accounting Review , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 355 - 375 Posted: 1998
J Andreoni
Reasonable Doubt and the Optimal Magnitude of Fines: Should the Penalty Fit the Crime?
Journal of Economics , p. 385 - 395 Posted: 1991
S Baiman , J H Evans , N J Nagarajan
Collusion In Auditing , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1991
S Baiman , J H Evans , J Noel
Optimal Contracts with a Utility-Maximizing Auditor
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 217 - 244 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,690
RANK
173,507
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies