Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Project Selection Through Contract Design

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3077351

50 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2017

Ying Bao

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Business Administration

Mengze Shi

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Marketing; University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ajay Kalra

Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: November 25, 2017

Abstract

A common decision that organizations make is to prioritize and allocate resources to managers of competing new product projects. On successful completion of the projects, organizations often reward their project managers using a standardized incentive plan; that is, they reward the success of all managers equivalently disregarding the differential amount of resources invested in the projects. We develop a theoretical model to explain this puzzling practice. We model the phenomena where the project managers have private information about the quality of their own projects, and can manipulate the signals of project quality that the organization receives during the identification and resource-allocation stage. We show that when the managers have private information about their project types, a standardized incentive plan encourages the manager of a high-quality project to manipulate more and stand out. We argue that a standardized incentive plan is preferred because such a plan leads to more accurate resource allocation, even though a customized incentive plan is more efficient in inducing the implementation effort. We extend the model to consider alternative project evaluation and selection procedures and find the optimality of the standardized incentive plan to be robust.

Keywords: New Product Development, Incentive Mechanisms, Moral Hazard, Managerial Manipulation

Suggested Citation:

Bao, Ying and Shi, Mengze and Kalra, Ajay, Managing Project Selection Through Contract Design (November 25, 2017). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3077351, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3077351 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3077351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Arya , J Glover , B Mittendorf , Ye , L
On the use of customized versus standardized performance measures
Journal of Management Accounting Research , p. 7 - 21 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Ramji Balakrishnan , Haijin Lin , Shiva Sivaramakrishnan
Task Assignment, Relative and Absolute Performance Evaluation
AAA 2015 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Pages: 44 Posted: 19 Aug 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C G Begley , L M Ellis
Drug development: Raise standards for preclinical cancer research
Nature , p. 531 - 533 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Bernardo , H Cai , J Luo
Capital budgeting and compensation with asymmetric information and moral hazard
Journal of Financial Economics , p. 311 - 344 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,805
RANK
420,501
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies