Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Internal Control Regulation: Standards, Penalties, and Leniency in Enforcement

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 40, No. 3, 2021

34 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2018 Last revised: 13 Jun 2023

Stefan Schantl

The University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Alfred Wagenhofer

University of Graz

Date Written: September 25, 2020

Abstract

To protect investors, regulators increasingly rely on regulating firms’ internal controls over financial reporting, but they punish noncompliance only if an internal control weakness enabled accounting manipulation. In other words, enforcement is manipulation-contingent. We develop an economic model with a manager who sequentially chooses internal control quality and manipulative effort, and a welfare-maximizing regulator who determines an internal control standard, the penalty size for internal control weaknesses, and when to invoke such a penalty. Internal control regulation under manipulation-contingent enforcement not only provides incentives to invest in internal controls, but also improves manipulation deterrence when there are internal control weaknesses. The optimal regulation takes advantage of this additional deterrence effect by using a very strict internal control standard and an intermediate penalty that is only levied in the event of accounting manipulation. Overall, we rationalize why the commitment to lenient enforcement of internal control regulation is optimal.

Keywords: internal controls; compliance; enforcement; regulation; accounting manipulation

JEL Classification: D60, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Schantl, Stefan and Wagenhofer, Alfred, Optimal Internal Control Regulation: Standards, Penalties, and Leniency in Enforcement (September 25, 2020). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 40, No. 3, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3117980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3117980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How Does Internal Control Regulation Affect Financial Reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
L A Bebchuk , L Kaplow
Optimal Sanctions When Individuals are Imperfectly Informed About the Probability of Apprehension
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 21 , p. 365 - 370 Posted: 1992
G S Becker
Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
D Chan
The Effects of Internal Control Reporting Regulation on Control Quality, Compensation and Audit Effort Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,615
RANK
236,690
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies