Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Ownership and Managerial Incentives with Endogenous Project Risk

Review of Accounting Studies, Volume 24(4)

50 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2018 Last revised: 2 Nov 2020

Tim Baldenius

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: March 24, 2017

Abstract

Integrated ownership is often seen as a way to foster specific investments. However, even in integrated firms, managers invest to maximize their compensation, which is chiefly driven by divisional income. Thus it is not clear that integration has any effect on investments in a world of decentralized decision-making. Building on recent findings that efficiency-enhancing investments raise not only the expected value of a project but also its variance, we show that, under plausible conditions, integration calls for low-powered incentive contracts: the managers invest more as they are less exposed to the investment-related (endogenous) risk, and the principal of an integrated firm has more to gain from greater investment. On the other hand, integration may result in higher-powered incentives if the project is inherently very risky or if the project-specific input is personally costly to the managers (rather than a monetary investment). The qualitative takeaway remains, however, that the contract adjustments under integration mitigate any input distortions present under non-integration. We also allow for firmwide performance evaluation under integration and show that it may lead to larger input distortions, but those are outweighed by improved risk sharing.

Keywords: firm ownership, vertical integration, pay-performance sensitivity, investments, risk, firmwide performance evaluation

JEL Classification: M40, D23, D80, L22

Suggested Citation:

Baldenius, Tim and Michaeli, Beatrice, Integrated Ownership and Managerial Incentives with Endogenous Project Risk (March 24, 2017). Review of Accounting Studies, Volume 24(4) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3118554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3118554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Anctil , S Dutta
Negotiated transfer pricing and divisional vs. firm-wide performance evaluation
The Accounting Review , volume 74 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Input markets and the strategic organization of the firm
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 97 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The changing face of distribution channels: partial forward integration and strategic investments , volume 22 , p. 1077 - 1088 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,378
RANK
427,290
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies