Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Agency Model Free from the Utility Theory

Accepted and presented in 48th Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute, Washington DC, 2017.

2017, D. Armani, "An Agency Model Free from the Utility Theory," 48th Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute, Washington DC. 

48 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2018 Last revised: 24 Dec 2019

Daniel Armani

McCombs School of Business - University of Texas at Austin; The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management, Michigan State University

Date Written: June 27, 2014

Abstract

In most of the agency literature, risk aversion or dis-utility of effort is necessary to yield a nontrivial problem. While utility theory has been challenged in many studies, this paper aims at examining an alternative source of moral hazard other than risk or effort aversion. Here, the agent is assumed to be risk-neutral and does not incur (different levels of) dis-utility from making decisions. His sole responsibility is to allocate a finite resource to multiple tasks or divisions. The resource has a concave effect on the expected output and the performance of each task, reflecting its diminishing return. Consequently, resource scarcity imposes an ellipsoidal constraint on the expected output levels. The value created and the agent’s payment (contract) both linearly depend on the measurable outputs of the tasks.




We find the optimal linear contracts for different situations using KKT conditions. It shows that information asymmetry does not necessarily induce moral hazard in the absence of other sources of tension. After imposing a limit on salary, we observe that it is not optimal to pay the agent based on his contributed value even if it is measurable from the outputs. The solutions to the complete model debunk the common “incentive alignment” paradigm that the performance-based compensation should be proportional to the value the agent creates. In fact, however measurable the gain is, gain-sharing plans are not optimal. Furthermore, maximizing the principal’s net profit is not equivalent to maximizing the value created.

Keywords: Incentive Mechanisms, Multi-Tasking, Compensation, Quadratic Constraint, Agency Theory, Principal Agent Problem, Agency Conflict, Moral Hazard

JEL Classification: C72, D82, D86, J33, M12

Suggested Citation:

Armani, Daniel, An Agency Model Free from the Utility Theory (June 27, 2014).
Accepted and presented in 48th Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute, Washington DC, 2017.
, 2017, D. Armani, "An Agency Model Free from the Utility Theory," 48th Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute, Washington DC. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3124506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3124506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J; Aaron , M; Harris , William Mcdowell , Brandon Cline
Optimal CEO Incentive Contracts: A Prospect Theory Explanation
Journal of Business Strategies , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 336 - 356 Posted: 2014
George P Baker
Incentive Contracts and Performance Measurement
Journal of Political Economy , volume 100 , issue 3 , p. 598 - 614 Posted: 1992
Stanley ; Baiman , Fischer , Paul; Rajan , V Madhav , Richard Saouma
Resource Allocation Auctions with Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 915 - 946 Posted: 2007
R D Banker , H Chang , S N Janakiraman , C Konstans
A Balanced Scorecard Analysis of Performance Metrics
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 154 , p. 423 - 436 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,991
RANK
502,079
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies