Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Investment Models in Accounting Research

64 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2018

Alexander Nezlobin

London School of Economics

Date Written: February 20, 2018

Abstract

This monograph presents three variants of the neoclassical investment model and characterizes the firm's optimal investment policy, equity value, and the desirable properties of accrual accounting rules in each setting.

Two main questions are considered:

(1) What accounting rules result in the most informative financial statements from the perspective of investors seeking to value the firm's equity? and,

(2) What accounting rules can be efficiently used by shareholders in evaluating the performance of better informed managers?

One accounting treatment, referred to as replacement cost accounting, achieves efficiency along both dimensions.

The notion of replacement cost studied in this monograph corresponds closely to that of fair value, as defined in IFRS 13, in that it is defined as either:

(i) the current price of the capital goods in a perfectly competitive market, if such a market is available, or

(ii) the hypothetical amount that would have to be incurred today to replace the current and future capacity of the capital goods in question.

While the replacement cost rule is, in many settings, unique in providing the firm's shareholders with sufficient information for precise equity valuation, the problem of efficient performance measurement is generally less informationally demanding. For example, under certain plausible conditions, the owners can incentivize a better informed manager to make efficient investment decisions using the straight-line depreciation method.

Keywords: Investment, Valuation, Real Options, Goal Congruence, Performance Measurement, Accounting Rules, Fair Value Measurement, Vintage Capital, Irreversibility

JEL Classification: E22, G31, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Nezlobin, Alexander, Dynamic Investment Models in Accounting Research (February 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3127029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3127029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,397
RANK
227,558
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies