Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mind The (Information) Gap: Strategic Non-Disclosure by Marketers and Interventions to Increase Consumer Deliberation

69 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2018 Last revised: 5 Nov 2019

Sunita Sah

Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Daniel Read

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Date Written: November 8, 2017

Abstract

Marketers have a choice of what to tell consumers and consumers must consider what they are told or not told. Across six experiments, we show that consumers fail to differentiate between deliberate and non-deliberate missing information (strategic naiveté) and make generous inferences when they do notice missing information is deliberately withheld (charitability). We also show how marketers can take advantage of this by withholding information. We investigate both sides to (1) show the effects of interventions to encourage consumers to consider deliberate nondisclosure in a less naïve and charitable fashion, (2) demonstrate when marketers should disclose (or not) if consumers are naïve and charitable (i.e., breakeven points), and (3) explore the reasons marketers give for (non-) disclosure and consumers’ thoughts on why information is missing. Consumers respond differently to distinct but theoretically equivalent framings that increase the salience of non-disclosure. Only when non-disclosure was highly salient, and consumers could compare multiple profiles side-by-side did consumers believe the nondisclosed information to be the worst possible.

Keywords: theory of rational disclosure, unraveling of information, voluntary disclosure, decision making, judgment, behavioral game theory

Suggested Citation:

Sah, Sunita and Read, Daniel, Mind The (Information) Gap: Strategic Non-Disclosure by Marketers and Interventions to Increase Consumer Deliberation (November 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3134477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M Adler
Well-being and fair distribution: Beyond cost-benefit analysis Posted: 2012
V Benndorf
Voluntary disclosure of private information and unraveling in the market for lemons: An experiment
Games , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 23 - 40 Posted: 2018
Crossref
V Benndorf , D Kübler , H.-T Normann
Depth of reasoning and information revelation: An experiment on the distribution of k-levels
International Game Theory Review , volume 19 , issue 4 Posted: 2017
Crossref
O Ben-Shahar , C E Schneider
The failure of mandated disclosure
University of Pennsylvania Law Review , volume 159 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 749 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
RANK
505,214
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Behavioral Marketing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies