Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identifying Accounting Conservatism in the Presence of Skewness

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2018 Last revised: 12 Sep 2023

Henry Jarva

Hanken School of Economics

Matthijs Lof

Aalto University

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

The asymmetric timeliness (AT) coefficient as a measure of accounting conservatism has been subject to much debate. We clarify the conditions under which the AT coefficient identifies accounting conservatism in the presence of skewness. Specifically, using an extensive simulation-based approach, we examine the joint impact of return skewness, earnings skewness, and return endogeneity. We show that skewness of returns and earnings distorts the AT coefficient as a measure of conservatism when returns are endogenous. While earnings skewness is a predicted consequence of conditional conservatism, return skewness is arguably unrelated to conservative reporting and cannot be tackled by simple skew reducing transformations or outlier-robust estimators. Empirically, we analyze asymmetric timeliness and skewness of firms sorted on size and MTB, highlighting the importance of constant skewness across groups for accurate comparisons of accounting conservatism.

Keywords: conditional conservatism; asymmetric timeliness; piecewise linear regression; skewness

JEL Classification: M41, C15

Suggested Citation:

Jarva, Henry and Lof, Matthijs, Identifying Accounting Conservatism in the Presence of Skewness (September 1, 2023). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3151365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3151365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R Albuquerque
Skewness in stock returns: reconciling the evidence on firm versus aggregate returns
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 5 , p. 1630 - 1673 Posted: 2012
A Azzalini
The Skew-Normal and related families , volume 3 Posted: 2013
M Badia , M Duro , F Penalva , S G Ryan
Debiasing the Measurement of Conditional Conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1221 - 1259 Posted: 2021
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,131
RANK
265,489
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies