Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Timing of Information Acquisition and Decision Making on New Product Development Under Decentralized Organization

16 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2018

Yasuhiro Mazda

Tohoku University - Graduate School of Economics & Management

Date Written: March 31, 2018

Abstract

When an investment is in goodwill, a divisional performance measurement based on residual income is subject to what is included in assets, as IFRS requires.

Especially in case the project may be shut down on its way, investment base for the calculation of residual income measures is dependent of the continuation decision on such projects.

I investigate residual income performance measure and capital charge rate in the situation where there may be continuation decision on a project whose prospect looks bad.

In the analysis of this problem, I compare two schemes on continuation decision on such a project in a bad condition: deliberate scheme under which the manager can refer more detailed but delyed information; precommitment scheme under which the manager makes a prompt decision without any further relevant information.

Under deliberate scheme, capital charge rate plays a role of controlling a continuation decision but decreases the incentive of additional expenditure. Under precommitment scheme, capital charge rate has neither role nor negative effect but causes any project in a bad condition to be continued.

Which scheme is more desirable depends on two parameters: return when a project fails and principal's opportunity loss caused by continuation of a failed project.

In an extended model, I investigate influence of noisy signals and show that the validity of conservative accounting system depends on the principal's opportunity loss.

Keywords: Capital charge, Goodwill, Performance measurement, Residual income

JEL Classification: M41, M21, M12

Suggested Citation:

Mazda, Yasuhiro, Timing of Information Acquisition and Decision Making on New Product Development Under Decentralized Organization (March 31, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3153472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3153472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
M Dewatripont , E Maskin
Credit and Efficiency in Centralized and Decentralized Economies
Review of Economic Studies , volume 62 , issue 4 , p. 541 - 555 Posted: 1995
Crossref
C T Horngren , S Datar , M Rajan
Cost Accounting: A Managerial Emphasis Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
672,649
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies