Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Asymmetric Disclosure When Price Efficiency Affects Real Efficiency

46 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2018 Last revised: 8 Aug 2018

Qi Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Zeqiong Huang

Yale School of Management

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Yun Zhang

George Washington University

Date Written: August 6, 2018

Abstract

We examine the effects of asymmetric disclosure of good and bad news on price We examine the effects of asymmetric disclosure of good vs. bad news on price informativeness when prices provide useful information to assist firms’ investment decisions. We find that more timely disclosure of negative news encourages speculators to trade on their private information which in turn improves the efficiency of firms’ investment decisions. We also identify conditions under which the preferences for timely loss disclosure differ between a firm whose objective is to maximize ex ante firm value and a social planner whose objective is to maximize investment efficiency. Our analysis provides an alternative economic explanation for asymmetric timeliness in accounting disclosure.

Keywords: Timely loss recognition; Price informativeness; Feedback effect

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Qi and Huang, Zeqiong and Jiang, Xu and Zhang, Gaoqing and Zhang, Yun, The Role of Asymmetric Disclosure When Price Efficiency Affects Real Efficiency (August 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3157447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3157447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V Agarwal , R Vashishtha , M Venkatachalam
Mutual fund transparency and corporate myopia
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 1966 - 2003 Posted: 2017
Crossref
G M Angeletos , A Pavan
Transparency of information and coordination in economies with investment complementarities
American Economic Review , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 91 - 98 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C S Armstrong , D J Taylor , R E Verrecchia
Asymmetric reporting
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 32 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,175
RANK
184,612
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies