Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Noise and the Pricing of Cocos

Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2018-037/VI

44 Pages Posted: 2 May 2018

Mike Derksen

University of Amsterdam - Korteweg-de Vries Institute for Mathematics

Peter Spreij

Universiteit van Amsterdam, Korteweg-de Vries Institute for Mathematics

Sweder van Wijnbergen

Universiteit van Amsterdam; Tinbergen Institute; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 8, 2018

Abstract

Contingent Convertible bonds (CoCos) are debt instruments that convert into equity or are written down in times of distress. Existing pricing models assume conversion triggers based on market prices and on the assumption that markets can always observe all relevant firm information. But all Cocos issued so far have triggers based on accounting ratios and/or regulatory intervention. We incorporate that markets receive information through noisy accounting reports issued at discrete time instants, which allows us to distinguish between market and accounting values, and between automatic triggers and regulator-mandated conversions. Our second contribution is to incorporate that coupon payments are contingent too: their payment is conditional on the Maximum Distributable Amount not being exceeded. We examine the impact of CoCo design parameters, asset volatility and accounting noise on the price of a CoCo; and investigate the interaction between CoCo design features, the capital structure of the issuing bank and their implications for risk taking and investment incentives. Finally, we use our model to explain the crash in CoCo prices after Deutsche Bank’s profit warning in February 2016.

Keywords: Contingent Capital Pricing, Accounting Noise, Coco Triggers, Coco Design, Risk Taking Incentives, Investment Incentives

JEL Classification: G12, G13, G18, G21, G28, G32

Suggested Citation:

Derksen, Mike and Spreij, Peter and van Wijnbergen, Sweder, Accounting Noise and the Pricing of Cocos (April 8, 2018). Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2018-037/VI, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3162588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
B Albul , D Jaffee , Tchistyi A
Contingent convertible bonds and capital structure decisions. Working paper, University of California Posted: 2012
S Avdiev , B Bogdanova , P Bolton , Wei Jiang , A Kartasheva
Coco issuance and bank fragility. Working paper, BIS Posted: 2017
Barclays
Barclays Coco IPO Posted: 2017-03-03
Crossref
D Brigo , J Garcia , N Pede
Coco bonds valuation with equity-and-credit risk calibrated first passage structural models
International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance , volume 18 , issue 3 Posted: 2015
Load more
3 Citations
Michele Leonardo Bianchi , Gian Luca Tassinari
Extracting implied volatilities from bank bonds
Quantitative Finance , volume 23 , issue 7-8 , p. 1177 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Ioana Neamtu
Multiple Buffer CoCos and Their Impact on Financial Stability
46 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ioana Neamtu
Multiple Buffer CoCos and Their Impact on Financial Stability
Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2020-010/IV · 48 Pages · Posted: 12 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,603
RANK
527,931
3 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies