Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Substitution

Management Science, forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 23 May 2018 Last revised: 14 Feb 2022

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Delphine Samuels

University of Chicago -- Booth School of Business

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: January 22, 2022

Abstract

This study develops and tests a simple model of voluntary disclosure where managers can choose to withhold (i.e., redact) certain elements from mandatory disclosure. We consider a setting where mandatory disclosure is a disaggregated disclosure (e.g., a financial statement), voluntary disclosure is an aggregate disclosure (e.g., an earnings forecast), and the costs of each type of disclosure are distinct. In this setting, we show that managers endogenously substitute between the two types of disclosure—managers that chose to withhold information from mandatory disclosure are more likely to provide voluntary disclosure. We test our predictions using a comprehensive sample of mandatory disclosures where the SEC allows the firm to redact information that would otherwise jeopardize its competitive position. Consistent with our predictions, we find strong evidence that redacted mandatory disclosure is associated with greater voluntary disclosure.

Suggested Citation:

Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Samuels, Delphine and Taylor, Daniel, Disclosure Substitution (January 22, 2022). Management Science, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3173664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3173664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
The Evolution of Empirical Methods in Accounting Research and the Growth of Quasi-Experiments Posted: 2021
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Financial reporting and supplemental voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 885 - 913 Posted: 2007
K Balakrishnan , J Blouin , W Guay
Does tax aggressiveness reduce corporate transparency? The Accounting Review, forthcoming Posted: 2018
D Bao , Y Kim , L Su
Do firms redact information from material contracts to conceal bad news? The Accounting Review, forthcoming Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,795
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,070
RANK
22,049
8 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies