Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence Suppression by Prosecutors: Violations of the Brady Rule

72 Pages Posted: 22 May 2018

Andrew F. Daughety

Department of Economics, Vanderbilt University

Jennifer F. Reinganum

Vanderbilt University - College of Arts and Science - Department of Economics

Date Written: May 8, 2018

Abstract

We develop a model of individual prosecutors (and teams of prosecutors) to address the incentives for the suppression of exculpatory evidence. Our model assumes that each individual prosecutor trades off a desire for career advancement (by winning a case) and a disutility for knowingly convicting an innocent defendant. We assume a population of prosecutors that is heterogeneous with respect to this disutility, and each individual’s disutility rate is their own private information. A convicted defendant may later discover exculpatory information; a judge will then void the conviction and may order an investigation. Judges are also heterogeneous in their opportunity costs (which is each judge’s private information) of pursuing suspected misconduct. We show that the equilibrium information configuration within the team involves concentration of authority about suppressing/disclosing evidence. We further consider the effect of angst about teammate choices, office culture, and the endogenous choice of effort to suppress evidence.

Keywords: Evidence suppression, prosecutorial misconduct, disclosure

JEL Classification: K4, D82, D73

Suggested Citation:

Daughety, Andrew F. and Reinganum, Jennifer F., Evidence Suppression by Prosecutors: Violations of the Brady Rule (May 8, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3175522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Scott Baker , Claudio Mezzetti
Prosecutorial Resources, Plea Bargaining, and the Decision to Go to Trial
17 Journal of Law , p. 149 - 167 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Bandoyopadhyay , Bryan C Mccannon
The Effect of the Election of Prosecutors on Criminal Trials
161 Public Choice , p. 141 - 156 Posted: 2014
Crossref
David Bjerk
Guilt Shall not Escape of Innocence Suffer: The Limits of Plea Bargaining When Defendant Guilt is Uncertain
American Law and Economics Review , issue 9 , p. 305 - 329 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Richard T Boylan , Cheryl X Long
Salaries, Plea Rates, and the Career Objectives of Federal Prosecutors
48 Journal of Law and Economics , p. 627 - 652 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
RANK
475,518
3 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Criminal Procedure eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies