Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting and Credit Ratings: On the Effects of Competition in the Rating Industry and Rating Agencies' Gatekeeper Role

Journal of Accounting Research

63 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2018 Last revised: 14 Jun 2023

Kyungha Lee

Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Stefan Schantl

The University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 7, 2019

Abstract

This paper studies firms' financial reporting incentives in the presence of strategic credit rating agencies and how these incentives are affected by the level of competition in the rating industry and by rating agencies' role as gatekeepers to debt markets. We develop a model featuring an entrepreneur who seeks project financing from a perfectly competitive debt market. After publicly disclosing a financial report, the entrepreneur can purchase credit ratings from rating agencies that strategically choose their rating fees and rating inflation. We derive the following core results. (i) More rating industry competition leads to stronger corporate misreporting incentives if ratings are sufficiently precise or if rating agencies assume a gatekeeper role. Under imperfect rating industry competition, (ii) agencies' gatekeeper role primarily weakens firms' misreporting incentives, which then influences rating agencies' strategies, and (iii) firms' misreporting and rating agencies' rating inflation can be strategic complements when agencies assume a gatekeeper role. (iv) Regulatory initiatives aimed at increasing rating industry competition or at weakening rating agencies' gatekeeper role improve investment efficiency as long as corporate misreporting incentives are not significantly strengthened.

Keywords: corporate disclosure, credit rating, rating inflation, investor regulation, competition

JEL Classification: D80, G12, G24, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Kyungha (Kari) and Schantl, Stefan, Financial Reporting and Credit Ratings: On the Effects of Competition in the Rating Industry and Rating Agencies' Gatekeeper Role (March 7, 2019). Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3177465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3177465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
V Acharya , T F Cooley
M P Richardson , ; , W Ingo
Regulating Wall Street: The Dodd-Frank Act and the new architecture of global nance Posted: 2010
W Alissa , S B Bonsall , I V , K Koharki , ; , M W Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to inuence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 Posted: 2013
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The interaction among disclosure, competition between rms, and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,857
RANK
250,789
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies