Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deterrence of Financial Misreporting When Public and Private Enforcement Strategically Interact

Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 70 (1)

52 Pages Posted: 24 May 2018 Last revised: 13 Jun 2023

Stefan Schantl

The University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Alfred Wagenhofer

University of Graz

Date Written: February 26, 2020

Abstract

This paper studies strategic interactions between public and private enforcement of accounting regulation and their consequences for the deterrence of financial misreporting. We develop an economic model with a manager, a public enforcement agency, and an investor and derive equilibrium strategies for manipulative effort, routine investigative effort, and costly private litigation. Our main results are as follows. (i) Strengthening private enforcement unambiguously enhances deterrence, whereas strengthening public enforcement can exacerbate misreporting, due to a crowding out of private enforcement. We provide conditions under which (ii) the enforcer’s investigation incentives first increase and then decrease in the strength of private enforcement, (iii) public and private enforcement are strategic substitutes, (iv) the number of enforcement actions is misleading about public enforcement effectiveness, and (v) strengthening private enforcement decreases litigation risk. We also discuss implications of our results for empirical research.

Keywords: Accounting manipulation; deterrence; public enforcement; investor litigation; litigation risk

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K22, K42, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Schantl, Stefan and Wagenhofer, Alfred, Deterrence of Financial Misreporting When Public and Private Enforcement Strategically Interact (February 26, 2020). Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 70 (1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3177487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3177487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Ackerman
SEC disciplines over Madoff
Wall Street J Posted: 2011-11-12
J Aharony , C Liu , A Yawson
Corporate litigation and executive turnover
J. Corp. Financ , volume 34 , p. 268 - 292 Posted: 2015
A Alesina , G Tabellini
or politicians? Part I: A single policy task , volume 97 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2007
M Arthaud-Day , S Certo , C Dalton , D Dalton
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements
Acad. Manage. J , volume 49 , issue 6 , p. 1119 - 1136 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,086
RANK
149,425
25 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies