Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Communication with Evidence in the Lab

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP12927

49 Pages Posted: 15 May 2018

Jeanne Hagenbach

University of Paris-Saclay - Ecole Polytechnique

Eduardo Perez-Richet

Sciences Po

Date Written: May 2018

Abstract

We study a class of sender-receiver disclosure games in the lab. Our experiment relies on a graphical representation of sender's incentives in these games, and permits partial disclosure. We use local and global properties of the incentive graph to explain behavior and performance of players across different games. Sender types whose interests are aligned with those of the receiver fully disclose, while other types use vague messages. Receivers take the evidence disclosed by senders into account, and perform better in games with an acyclic graph. Senders perform better in games with a cyclic graph. The data is largely consistent with a non-equilibrium model of strategic thinking based on the iterated elimination of obviously dominated strategies.

Keywords: hard evidence, information disclosure, masquerade relation, obvious dominance, Sender-receiver game, skepticism

JEL Classification: C72, C91, D82

Suggested Citation:

Hagenbach, Jeanne and Perez-Richet, Eduardo, Communication with Evidence in the Lab (May 2018). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP12927, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3178098
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
47 References
I Ashlagi , Y A Gonczarowski
Stable Matching Mechanisms are not Obviously Strategy-Proof Posted: 2016
Crossref
S Bade , Y A Gonczarowski
Gibbard-Satterthwaite Success Stories and Obvious Strategyproofness Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Battaglini , U Makarov
Cheap Talk with Multiple Audiences: an Experimental Analysis , volume 83 , p. 147 - 164 Posted: 2014
Crossref
V Benndorf , D Kübler , H.-T Normann
Privacy Concerns, Voluntary Disclosure of Information, and Unraveling: an Experiment
European Economic Review , volume 75 , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5
ABSTRACT VIEWS
652
3 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies