Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Rationale for Imperfect Reporting Standards

Management Science, forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2018 Last revised: 21 Dec 2020

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

John S. Hughes

University of California at Los Angeles

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: February 1, 2018

Abstract

The aim of general purpose financial reporting is to provide information that is useful to investors, lenders, and other creditors. With this goal, regulators have tended to mandate increased disclosure. We show that increased mandatory disclosure can weaken a firm's incentive to acquire and voluntarily disclose private information that is not amenable to inclusion in mandated reports. Specifically, we provide conditions under which a regulator, seeking to maximize the total amount of information provided to investors via both mandatory and voluntary disclosures, would mandate less informative and more conservative financial reports even in the absence of any direct costs of increasing informativeness. This result is robust to allowing the firm to make reports more informative and to imposing a nondisclosure cost or penalty on the firm. The results and comparative statics analysis contribute to our understanding of interactions between mandatory reporting and voluntary disclosure, and demonstrate a novel benefit to setting accounting standards that mandate imperfectly informative reports.



Keywords: information gathering, financial reporting, disclosure

JEL Classification: D82, G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Henry L. and Hughes, John S. and Michaeli, Beatrice, A Rationale for Imperfect Reporting Standards (February 1, 2018). Management Science, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3183482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3183482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 79 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The interaction among disclosure, competition between firms, and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 321 - 339 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover
Debt and Voluntary Disclosure Posted: 1998
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Financial Reporting and Supplemental Voluntary Disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , p. 885 - 913 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,347
RANK
179,159
9 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies