Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure of Granular Information

56 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2018 Last revised: 26 Jan 2021

Alexander Nezlobin

London School of Economics

Date Written: May 29, 2018

Abstract

This paper presents a model of voluntary disclosure in which the manager's information about the firm's value is granular, i.e., consists of a large random number of imprecise signals. Using an argument in the spirit of the Bernstein-von Mises theorem, we show that there exists a simple equilibrium in which the manager discloses all signals exceeding a certain threshold, and the market prices the firm using the same linear rule on and off the equilibrium path. In contrast to models with monolithic information, the manager chooses the optimal disclosure threshold effectively ignoring the effect of disclosure on the investors's residual uncertainty about the firm's value.

Keywords: Bayesian Asymptotics, Voluntary Disclosure, Residual Uncertainty, Granular Information, Bernstein-Von Mises Theorem

JEL Classification: D21, D82, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nezlobin, Alexander, Voluntary Disclosure of Granular Information (May 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3186924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3186924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 79 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Beyer , R Dye
Reputation Management and the Disclosure of Earnings Forecasts
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , p. 877 - 912 Posted: 2012
Crossref
I Brocas , J Carrillo
Inuence through Ignorance
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 38 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Dasgupta
Asymptotic Theory of Statistics and Probability Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,930
RANK
439,204
1 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies