Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Theoretical Price of a Share-Based Payment With Performance Conditions and Implications for the Current Accounting Standards

30 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2018 Last revised: 25 Jul 2018

Masahiro Fujimoto

Fujimoto Financial Quantitative Research

Date Written: June 20, 2018

Abstract

Although the growth of share-based payments with performance conditions (hereafter, SPPC) is prominent today, the theoretical price of SPPC has not been sufficiently studied. Reflecting such a situation, the current accounting standards for share-based payments issued in 2004 have had many problems. This paper develops a theoretical SPPC price model with a framework for a marginal utility-based price, which previous studies proposed is the price of contingent claims in an incomplete market. This paper's contribution is vefold. First, we restricted the stochastic process to a certain class to demonstrate how to consistently change all variables' probability distributions, which affect the SPPC payoff. Second, we explicitly indicated not only the stochastic processes of the stock price process and performance variables under the changed probability, but also how the changes in the performance variables' drift coefficients related to stock betas. Third, we proposed a convenient model in an application that uses only a few parameters. Fourth, we provided a method to estimate the parameters and improve the estimation of both the price and parameters. Fifth, we illustrated the problems in current accounting standards and indicated how the theoretical price model can significantly improve them.

Keywords: Share-Based Payment, Performance-Based Vesting Condition, Employee Stock Options, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, Theoretical Price, Fair Value, Incomplete Market

Suggested Citation:

Fujimoto, Masahiro, The Theoretical Price of a Share-Based Payment With Performance Conditions and Implications for the Current Accounting Standards (June 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3199849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3199849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
N H Bingham , &amp; R Kiesel
Risk-Neutral Valuation: Pricing and Hedging of Financial Derivatives Posted: 2013
M M Carhart
On persistence in mutual fund performance
The Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 62 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M Davis
Option pricing in incomplete markets
Mathematics of Derivative Securities , volume 15 , p. 216 - 226 Posted: 1997
F Delbaen , &amp; W Schachermayer
The Banach space of workable contingent claims in arbitrage theory
Probability and Statistics , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 144 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
706
RANK
880,636
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies