Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Coordination Role of Stress Tests in Bank Risk Taking

58 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2018 Last revised: 9 Oct 2019

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 9, 2019

Abstract

We examine whether stress tests distort banks' risk-taking decisions. We study a model in which a regulator may choose to rescue banks in the event of concurrent bank failures. Our analysis reveals a novel coordination role of stress tests. Disclosure of stress-test results informs banks of the failure likelihood of other banks, which can reduce welfare by facilitating banks' coordination in risk-taking. However, conducting stress tests also enables the regulator to more effectively intervene banks, coordinating them preemptively into taking lower risks. We find that, if the regulator has a strong incentive to bail out, stress tests improve welfare, whereas if the regulator's incentive to bail out is weak, stress tests impair welfare.

Keywords: Stress test, Stress-test disclosure, Bank regulation, Bank risk-taking, Bailout, Coordination

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G28, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Nan, Lin and Zhang, Gaoqing, The Coordination Role of Stress Tests in Bank Risk Taking (October 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3201973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3201973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
V Acharya , S Ryan
Bank Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
V Acharya , T Yorulmazer
Too Many To Fail-An Analysis of Time-inconsistency in Bank Closure Policies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 16 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2007
F Allen , S Morris , H Shin
Beauty Contests and Iterated Expectations in Asset Markets
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
G Angeletos , G Lorenzoni , A Pavan
Beauty Contests and Irrational Exuberance: A Neoclassical Approach
No. w15883 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,526
RANK
195,765
19 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies