Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Procurement with Asymmetric Information About Fixed and Variable Costs

37 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2018

Rick Antle

Yale School of Management

Peter Bogetoft

Copenhagen Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 14, 2018

Abstract

We investigate optimal rationing of resources and organizational slack when a principal procures from an agent with private information about fixed and variable costs. We study the problem in a two-period setting with persistent types and investigate how the optimal rationing and slack depend on whether production increases or decreases over time. We find that rationing in a dynamic model with persistent types is extra costly, since the types that are eliminated in Period 1 might have been attractive in Period 2. The cost of rationing increases with the variability of production. If production levels are increasing (decreasing), the principal will be cautious when eliminating types with low variable (fixed) costs in Period 1, since these types are particularly profitable in Period 2. When production is more stable over time, harsher rationing can be applied in Period 1, followed by less-harsh rationing, if any, in Period 2.

Keywords: Cost accounting, Fixed and variable costs, Production contracting, Dynamic model, Resource rationing, Organizational slack, Contracting, Cost functions, Production management, Managerial accounting

JEL Classification: C72, C76, D21, L24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Antle, Rick and Bogetoft, Peter, Procurement with Asymmetric Information About Fixed and Variable Costs (June 14, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3201651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3201651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
P J Agrell , P Bogetoft
Theory, techniques and applications of regulatory benchmarking and productivity analysis
The Oxford Handbook of Productivity Analysis Posted: 2018
Crossref
Rick Antle , Peter Bogetoft
Procurement with Asymmetric Information About Fixed and Variable Costs
Pages: 37 Posted: 15 Jul 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Antle , J Fellingham
Resource rationing and organizational slack in a two-period model
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rick Antle , Peter Bogetoft
Procurement with Asymmetric Information About Fixed and Variable Costs
37 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2018 · Downloads: 114
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,498
RANK
560,264
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies