Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigating Supplier Default Risk: Information and the Demand for Trade Credit

37 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2018

Pierre Jinghong Liang

Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University

Austin C. Sudbury

Carnegie Mellon University - Tepper School of Business

Date Written: May 21, 2018

Abstract

We bring to light a benefit of trade credit relationships in which large investment-grade firms borrow from their smaller suppliers despite the ability to secure less expensive financing elsewhere. The use of trade credit allows a firm, which is wary of a supply disruption, to indirectly acquire information regarding the stability of a supplier. This information allows the firm to improve its sourcing decisions and to better protect against supply chain disturbances. We also show that the demand for trade credit increases with the probability that a supplier is unstable and with the cost of supplier failure to the focal firm. These results provide theoretical justification for various empirical associations documented in the literature on trade credit. Paradoxically, we also show that a necessary condition for trade credit to arise in our setting is that a bank or other financial intermediary holds a comparative advantage in lending over the other firms in our model. This result stands in contrast the much of the theoretical literature on trade credit which justifies inter-firm lending by assuming the advantage in lending lies with a supplier.

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Pierre Jinghong and Sudbury, Austin C., Mitigating Supplier Default Risk: Information and the Demand for Trade Credit (May 21, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3202235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3202235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
V Babich , M J Sobel
Pre-ipo operational and financial decisions
Management Science , volume 50 , issue 7 , p. 935 - 948 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A N Berger , G F Udell
The economics of small business finance: The roles of private equity and debt markets in the financial growth cycle
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 22 , issue 6 , p. 613 - 673 Posted: 1998
Crossref
B Biais , C Gollier
Trade credit and credit rationing
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 903 - 937 Posted: 1997
Crossref
I E Brick , W K H Fung
Taxes and the theory of trade debt
The Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1176 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,124
RANK
284,107
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies