Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Financial Firm's Diversification Affect Its Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from the US P/L Insurance Market

Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation, 2018,19

32 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2025

Myeonghun Choi

Temple University - Fox School of Business and Management

Date Written: June 29, 2018

Abstract

This study focuses on how insurers’ cost of equity capital can be affected by diversification type and its degree: product diversification, geographical diversification, and unrelated diversification. Overall, results show that insurers' cost of equity capital is not significantly related with product diversification and unrelated diversifications, rejecting hypotheses of the coinsurance effect, internal capital market, and agency costs whereas geographical diversification shows a significant and negative relationship with the cost of equity capital. In addition, firm type and concentration on personal business lines are found as significant factors which influence insurers' cost of capital. This study also provides interesting empirical evidence that the potential bias of the rate of return from infrequent trading becomes smaller when CAPM and FF3F betas are estimated, which is comparable to the study conducted by Cummins and Phillips (2005). This change implies that the financial market efficiency has improved.

Keywords: P/L Industry, Diversification, Costs of Equity Capital, CAPM, and FF3F

JEL Classification: D22, D24, G22

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Myeonghun, How Does Financial Firm's Diversification Affect Its Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from the US P/L Insurance Market (June 29, 2018). Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation, 2018,19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3205003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3205003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
428
RANK
622,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies