Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Exogenous Information on Voluntary Disclosure and Market Quality

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018 Last revised: 27 Oct 2019

Sivan Frenkel

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Ilan Guttman

Leonard N. Stern School of Business, New York University; New York University - Stern Scholl of business

Ilan Kremer

University of Warwick; Hebrew University of Jerusalem

Date Written: October 6, 2019

Abstract

We analyze a model in which information may be voluntarily disclosed by a firm and/or by a third party, e.g., financial analysts. Due to its strategic nature, corporate voluntary disclosure is qualitatively different from third-party disclosure. Greater analyst coverage crowds out (crowds in) corporate voluntary disclosure when analysts mostly discover information that is available (unavailable) to the firm. Nevertheless, greater analyst coverage always improves the overall quality of public information. We base this claim on two market quality measures: price efficiency, which is statistical in nature, and liquidity, which is derived in a trading stage that follows the disclosure stage.

Keywords: Information Disclosure, Voluntary Disclosure, Price Efficiency, Liquidity, Analysts

JEL Classification: G14, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Frenkel, Sivan and Guttman, Ilan and Kremer, Ilan and Kremer, Ilan, The Effect of Exogenous Information on Voluntary Disclosure and Market Quality (October 6, 2019). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3211173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3211173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information ows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-regulation fd period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal eects of voluntary disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Snehal Banerjee , Keri Peicong Hu , Taejin Kim
Leaks, Disclosures and Internal Communication
Pages: 56 Posted: 13 Jul 2017 Last revised: 8 Oct 2024
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,170
RANK
152,310
35 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies