Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Is the Audit Market Affected by Characteristics of the Non-Audit Services Market?

29th Annual Conference on Financial Economics & Accounting 2018

59 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2018 Last revised: 2 Feb 2021

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Lucas Mahieux

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: February 2, 2021

Abstract

How can features of the markets for audit and non-audit services (NAS) affect an audit firm's incentives to invest in audit quality, average audit quality, and social welfare? We address these questions in a model focusing on competition in both audit and NAS markets. We show that, when audit and NAS demand are positively correlated, prohibiting auditors from providing NAS to audit clients leads to higher investments in audit quality, but can decrease average audit quality if marginal clients switch to lower-quality auditors. The effect on social welfare can be positive or negative, depending on the distribution of clients' service demands. General bans on auditor provision of NAS can, via similar channels, increase or decrease audit quality and social welfare. Overall, our findings suggest a more nuanced view of how regulating an auditor's provision of NAS might affect audit quality and social welfare, and are driven by the effects of multi-market competition on the auditor's incentives to invest in audit quality, rather than previously identified auditor independence or knowledge spillover channels.

Keywords: Audit quality, Auditing services, Non-audit services, Competition

JEL Classification: L11, L13, L51, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Henry L. and Mahieux, Lucas, How Is the Audit Market Affected by Characteristics of the Non-Audit Services Market? (February 2, 2021). 29th Annual Conference on Financial Economics & Accounting 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3212992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3212992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
E D Almer , D R Philbrick , K H Rupley
What drives auditor selection?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 42 Posted: 2014
Crossref
D Aobdia
The Economic Consequences of Audit Firms' Quality Control System Deficiencies
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
Crossref
S Bar-Yosef , B Sarath
Auditor Size, Market Segmentation and Litigation Patterns: A Theoretical Analysis
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 92 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T B Bell , M Causholli , W R Knechel
Audit Firm Tenure, Non-Audit Services, and Internal Assessments of Audit Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 461 - 509 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,532
RANK
180,190
3 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies