Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No Reliance on Guidance: Counter-Signaling in Management Forecasts

RAND Journal of Economics, Vol. 52, No. 1, 2021

63 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2018 Last revised: 14 Jul 2021

Cyrus Aghamolla

Rice University

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Ronghuo Zheng

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: August 5, 2020

Abstract

This study presents and provides an explanation for a novel stylized fact: both high-performing public companies as well as more troubled companies withhold issuing guidance. We assume that the manager’s ability affects the level of earnings and the accuracy of the guidance, but issuing a forecast is costless for all manager types. Managers are thus able to signal their ability through accuracy in their forecasts. While high ability managers would seem to benefit the most from issuing guidance, in equilibrium we find that both high and low ability managers withhold guidance, while intermediate ability managers issue forecasts. This occurs since high ability managers do not need to rely on guidance in order to convey their ability to the market, while intermediate managers must forecast to separate from low ability managers. Hence, we find that high ability managers counter-signal in equilibrium by withholding guidance, which does not result in a subsequent “punishment” by the market. Additionally, the results offer new empirical predictions.

Keywords: Counter-Signaling, Voluntary Disclosure, Earnings Guidance, Management Forecasts

JEL Classification: C72, D82, D83, G14

Suggested Citation:

Aghamolla, Cyrus and Corona, Carlos and Zheng, Ronghuo, No Reliance on Guidance: Counter-Signaling in Management Forecasts (August 5, 2020). RAND Journal of Economics, Vol. 52, No. 1, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3219401 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3219401
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
The American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C Aghamolla , B.-J An
Voluntary disclosure with evolving news
Journal of Financial Economics forthcoming Posted: 2020
Crossref
C Aghamolla , T Hashimoto
Managerial forecast manipulation and distortive investment Posted: 2020
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,000
RANK
237,535
10 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies