Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Information, Securities Lending, and Asset Prices

31st Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2018

73 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2018 Last revised: 14 Oct 2020

Pedram Nezafat

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Finance

Mark D. Schroder

Michigan State University - The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management

Date Written: June 5, 2018

Abstract

We study the role of private information in the equity-lending market in a rational expectations model with endogenous loan fees. When all investors are privately informed, an increase in information precision reduces the fee by increasing trading aggressiveness and decreasing demand dispersion. However, when some investors are uninformed, the information asymmetry tends to increase the fee, and, thus, the overall effect of an increase in precision is ambiguous. We show that the fee can be incrementally informative given the stock price and that fee opaqueness tends to increase the fee but has an ambiguous effect on the stock price.

Keywords: Short Selling, Asset Prices, Equity Lending Fees, Information Asymmetry

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G12

Suggested Citation:

Nezafat, Pedram and Schroder, Mark D., Private Information, Securities Lending, and Asset Prices (June 5, 2018). 31st Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3222372 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3222372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A B Abel
Asset prices under heterogeneous beliefs: Implications for the equity premium Posted: 1989
E W Anderson , E Ghysels , J L Juergens
Do heterogeneous beliefs matter for asset pricing?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Asquith , P A Pathak , J R Ritter
Short interest, institutional ownership, and stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Adem Atmaz , Suleyman Basak , Fangcheng Ruan
Dynamic Equilibrium with Costly Short-Selling and Lending Market
Review of Financial Studies Pages: 74 Posted: 3 Feb 2020 Last revised: 21 Jun 2023
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,330
RANK
247,189
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies