Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality and Investment Efficiency with Endogenous Information in Markets

57 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2018 Last revised: 30 Aug 2021

Nisan Langberg

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Naomi Rothenberg

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: August 16, 2021

Abstract

We study audit quality and investment efficiency when information produced by a third
party, e.g., a financial analyst, can curb overvaluation, and auditors are subject to legal liability
following audit failure. With the auditor's damage payment based on the price inflation caused
by audit failure, the analyst's information brings prices closer to fundamentals and provides
a hedge to the auditor against legal liability risk. This weakens incentives for audit quality,
and the analyst responds with more information production due to the penalty for mispricing.
Consequently, in equilibrium, stricter legal liability leads to higher audit quality, which reduces
overinvestment, but also less information production, which increases underinvestment. Thus,
stricter legal liability has a non-monotonic effect on firm value: it increases the value of high
growth firms, but reduces the value of low growth firms. The results have implications for the
optimal level of legal liability that maximizes the expected value of the firm.

Keywords: Auditor liability, financial reporting quality, analyst's forecast, information production, capital investment

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G14, G23, G32

Suggested Citation:

Langberg, Nisan and Rothenberg, Naomi, Audit Quality and Investment Efficiency with Endogenous Information in Markets (August 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3224561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3224561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
M Alles , R Lundholm
On the Optimality of Public Signals in the Presence of Private Information
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 112 Posted: 1993
K Balakrishnan , M Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Posted: 2014
Causal E¤ects of Voluntary Disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278
A Beyer , D Cohen , T Lys , B Walther
The …nancial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Minlei Ye
The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
127 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 10 May 2023 · Downloads: 1,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,137
RANK
177,110
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies