Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moral Hazard in the Presence of Suppliers and Competitors

51 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2018 Last revised: 1 Dec 2018

Harald Hinterecker

University of Graz - Department of Organization and Economics of Institutions

Michael Kopel

University of Graz

Date Written: August 2, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the interdependence between a firm's moral hazard problem and its roles as a buyer of inputs and seller of final products. We demonstrate that to maximize profit a firm needs to adapt incentive contracts to variations in the competitive environment of the supplier market. Additionally, we show that moral hazard attenuates aggressive pricing of suppliers with market power and that this effect might even outweigh agency costs. We also show how the interaction between the firm-agent and the firm-supplier relationship affects a firm's decision to (de)centralize the tasks of cost reduction and input production. Our results are shown to be robust to variations in input and product market competition.

Keywords: moral hazard, procurement, competition

JEL Classification: M40; D43; L22

Suggested Citation:

Hinterecker, Harald and Kopel, Michael, Moral Hazard in the Presence of Suppliers and Competitors (August 2, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3225222 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3225222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M Alles , S Datar
Strategic Transfer Pricing
Management Science , volume 44 , issue 4 , p. 451 - 461 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Arora , P Alam
CEO Compensation and Stakeholders Claims
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Interacting supply chain distortions: The pricing of internal transfers and external procurement
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,954
RANK
336,212
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies