Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentive Design for Operations-Marketing Multitasking

Management Science, Vol. 67, No. 4, pp. 2211–2230, April 2021

58 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2018 Last revised: 2 Jul 2021

Tinglong Dai

Johns Hopkins University - Carey Business School; Johns Hopkins University - Hopkins Business of Health Initiative

Rongzhu Ke

Hong Kong Baptist University - Department of Economics

Christopher Ryan

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Division of Operations and Logistics

Date Written: March 22, 2020

Abstract

A firm hires an agent (e.g., store manager) to undertake both operational and marketing tasks. Marketing tasks boost demand, but for demand to translate into sales, operational effort is required to maintain adequate inventory. The firm designs a compensation plan to induce the agent to put effort into both marketing and operations while facing “demand censoring” (i.e., demand in excess of available inventory is unobservable). We formulate this incentive-design problem in a principal-agent framework with a multitasking agent subject to a censored signal. We develop a bang-bang optimal control approach, with a general optimality structure applicable to a broad class of incentive-design problems. Using this approach, we characterize the optimal compensation plan, with a bonus region resembling a “mast” and “sail,” such that a bonus is paid when either all inventory above a threshold is sold or the sales quantity meets an inventory-dependent target. The optimal “mast and sail” compensation plan implies non-monotonicity, where the agent can be less likely to receive a bonus for achieving a better outcome. This gives rise to an ex post moral hazard issue where the agent may “hide” inventory to earn a bonus. We show this ex post moral hazard issue is a result of demand censoring. If available information includes a waitlist (or other noisy signals) to gauge unsatisfied demand, no ex post moral hazard issues remain.

Keywords: marketing-operations multitasking, retail operations, moral hazard, bang-bang control

JEL Classification: C61, D82, D86, J33

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Tinglong and Ke, Rongzhu and Ryan, Christopher, Incentive Design for Operations-Marketing Multitasking (March 22, 2020). Management Science, Vol. 67, No. 4, pp. 2211–2230, April 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3235866 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3235866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R Anupindi , M Dada , S Gupta
Estimation of consumer demand with stock-out based substitution: An application to vending machine products
Marketing Sci , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 406 - 423 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , B Mittendorf
Aligning incentives by capping bonuses
Essays in Accounting Theory in Honour of Joel S. Demski , p. 169 - 182 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Aykut Atali , Hau L. Lee , Özalp Özer
If the Inventory Manager Knew: Value of Visibility and RFID under Imperfect Inventory Information
Pages: 35 Posted: 2 Mar 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Baiman , S Netessine , R Saouma
Informativeness, incentive compensation, and the choice of inventory buffer
Accounting Rev , volume 85 , issue 6 , p. 1839 - 1860 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,981
RANK
142,640
3 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies