Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Clear and Liquid: The Interaction of Firm Disclosure and Trader Competition

49 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2018 Last revised: 19 Oct 2018

Efstathios Avdis

University of Alberta - Department of Finance and Statistical Analysis

Sanjay Banerjee

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 15, 2018

Abstract

In an economy where traders absorb information partially, we study the effect of disclosure accuracy and disclosure clarity on financial markets. Accuracy measures how precisely a disclosure identifies the firm's fundamentals, whereas clarity measures how well traders understand the disclosure. Increasing clarity promotes competition among informed traders more so than it increases the information asymmetry between informed traders and market makers. Increasing accuracy has the opposite effect. Trading volume increases monotonically in clarity, while liquidity has a U-shaped relationship with clarity if competition among traders is intense. Volume and liquidity both decrease in accuracy due to adverse selection among different market participants. Moreover, traders' attention to disclosure is hump-shaped in clarity, but increasing in accuracy. Trading profits mimic the patterns of attention, but only under intense competition. Overall, our results suggest that the current trend of increasing complexity in firm disclosures is detrimental to liquidity and volume.

Keywords: Competition, Bounded Rationality, Accuracy, Clarity

JEL Classification: D53, G14, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Avdis, Efstathios and Banerjee, Sanjay, Clear and Liquid: The Interaction of Firm Disclosure and Trader Competition (October 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3250467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3250467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
A monopolistic market for information
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 400 - 438 Posted: 1986
Crossref
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price variability
Review of Financial Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 1988
Crossref
B C Ayers , O Z Li , P E Yeung
Investor trading and the post-earningsannouncement drift
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 416 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,525
RANK
216,668
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies