Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating the Market for Audit Services: A Game Theoretic Approach

45 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2018 Last revised: 19 Dec 2019

Konstantinos Eleftheriou

University of Piraeus

Iliya Komarev

affiliation not provided to SSRN; Montpellier Business School

Paul J. M. Klumpes

Aalborg University Business School

Date Written: September 22, 2018

Abstract

We apply game theory to model how alternative mandatory audit firm rotation regimes can affect the strategic interaction between auditee and auditor firms, and analyze potential consequences on detection risk and impairment of auditor skepticism. The major results suggest that, (1) relative to an initial state with no rotation requirement but high probability for impaired auditor skepticism, imposing either short-term or long-term mandatory audit firm rotation will remove the threat to auditor skepticism and lead to higher audit fees and lower detection risk; (2) relative to long-term mandatory audit firm rotation, imposing a short-term rotation will lead to lower audit fees and higher detection risk, resulting from greater informational frictions. We further find that supplementary regulatory instruments such as increased scrutiny of the auditee and/or auditor can be used to lower the detection risk and increase the audit quality. The public policy and empirical implications of our findings are discussed.

Keywords: Auditing, Game theory, Regulation, Rotation

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eleftheriou, Konstantinos and Komarev, Iliya and Komarev, Iliya and Klumpes, Paul J.M., Regulating the Market for Audit Services: A Game Theoretic Approach (September 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3253641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3253641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
K Amin , J Krishnan , Joon Sun , Y
Going concern opinion and cost of equity
Audit.: A J. Pract. Theor , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2014
Crossref
N P Anastasopoulos , M P Anastasopoulos
The evolutionary dynamics of audit
Europ. J. Oper. Res , volume 216 , issue 2 , p. 469 - 476 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson
Top 10 Audit De…ciencies
J. Accountancy , volume 191 , issue 4 , p. 63 - 66 Posted: 2001
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , Neal T
An Analysis of Alleged Auditor De…ciencies
SEC Fraud Investigations: 1998-2010. The Center for Audit Quality Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,839
RANK
441,693
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies