Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management by the Numbers: A Formal Approach to Deriving Informational and Distributional Properties of 'Un-managed' Earnings

Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Research

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-33

52 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2018

Thomas Hemmer

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Date Written: October 9, 2018

Abstract

We explore the theoretical relation between earnings and market returns as well as the properties of earnings frequency distributions under the assumption that managers use unbiased accounting information to sequentially decide on real options their firms have and report generated earnings truthfully, with the market pricing the firm based on those reported earnings. We generate benchmarks against which empirically observed earnings-returns relations and aggregate earnings distributions can be evaluated. This parsimonious model shows a coherent set of results: reported losses are less persistent than reported gains, decision making diminishes the S-shaped market response to earnings and earnings relate to returns asymmetrically in the way documented by Basu (1997). Furthermore, the implied frequency distribution of aggregate earnings is neither symmetric nor necessarily single-peaked. Instead, it may exhibit a kink at zero and look similar to the plots reported by Burgstahler and Dichev (1997). However, within our model, none of these phenomena are due to reporting noise, bias or some undesirable strategic managerial behavior. They are the natural consequences of using past earnings as the basis for value increasing managerial decision making that in turn generates the future earnings on which future decisions will be based.

Keywords: Information for Decision Making, Decision Usefulness, Precision, Bias, Persistence, Earnings Management, Earnings Discontinuity

JEL Classification: M40, M41, D80, G14

Suggested Citation:

Hemmer, Thomas and Labro, Eva, Management by the Numbers: A Formal Approach to Deriving Informational and Distributional Properties of 'Un-managed' Earnings (October 9, 2018). Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Research, Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3263584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A B Abel , A K Dixit , J C Eberly , R S Pindyck
Options, the Value of Capital, and Investment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 111 , issue 3 , p. 753 - 777 Posted: 1996
Crossref
T Adam , V K Goyal
The Investment Opportunity Set and Its Proxy Variables
The Journal of Financial Research , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 63 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
V Anand , R Balakrishnan , E Labro
Obtaining Informationally Consistent Decisions When Computing Costs with Limited Information , volume 26 , p. 211 - 230 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Henry Jarva , Matthijs Lof
Identifying Accounting Conservatism in the Presence of Skewness
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, forthcoming · 51 Pages · Posted: 29 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 12 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 263
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,591
RANK
386,825
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies