Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Complementarities of Accounting Information and Its Off-equilibrium Role

44 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2018

Chao Tang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Frank Gigler

University of Minnesota - Carlson School of Management

Date Written: October 9, 2018

Abstract

This paper studies the role of financial reporting in enhancing the credibility of other sources of information. We find that an interim accounting report can discipline management's investment behavior and its effectiveness increases with accounting quality. As a consequence, when accounting quality increases, the investment itself becomes a sufficiently credible signal of management's more valuable private information, and therefore induces a dramatic market response. In this sense, the two pieces of information serve as compliments. However, since most information has already been preempted by the investment, the market's response to subsequent earnings announcement declines. Our results are consistent with the confirmatory role by Gigler and Hemmer (1998) in that the value of accounting is off equilibrium. Specifically, it is the threat that accounting will reveal an inefficient investment that prevents it from happening. Nevertheless, the mechanism in our paper is completely different, and the economic magnitude of the off-equilibrium role is first order, rather than a result of improved risk sharing. Therefore, to assess the value of accounting, we cannot simply rely on the equilibrium market responsiveness to earnings.

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Chao and Gigler, Frank, The Complementarities of Accounting Information and Its Off-equilibrium Role (October 9, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3263360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3263360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically ecient system of public nancial reporting and disclosure. Brookings-Wharton papers on nancial services Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball
What is the actual economic role of nancial reporting?
Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , issue 4 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of accounting research Posted: 1968
Crossref
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited nancial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the conrmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,876
RANK
436,820
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies