Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Stickiness as a Consequence of Capital Market Signaling

38 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2018 Last revised: 18 Dec 2018

Eti Einhorn

Tel Aviv University

Efrat Shust

The Department of Management and Economics, The Open University of Israel

Date Written: October 11, 2018

Abstract

Ample empirical evidence documents the tendency of costs to increase more when revenues rise than to decrease when revenues fall by an equivalent amount. The study offers a capital market oriented explanation for this asymmetric cost behavior, which is known in the literature as cost stickiness, by highlighting the informational role of managerial decisions regarding resource adjustment in response to demand shocks. The suggested explanation is established within a theoretical framework that demonstrates how capital market considerations induce managers of publicly traded firms to utilize their observable resource adjustment decisions as a signaling device through which they convey their private information to the capital market investors. Our analysis indicates that this signaling mechanism serves managers to promote the stock price of their firm at the expense of distorting the optimal cost structure of the firm in a way that triggers a cost stickiness pattern.

Keywords: cost behavior; cost stickiness; cost anti-stickiness; signaling

JEL Classification: D21; D24; D82; M41

Suggested Citation:

Einhorn, Eti and Shust, Efrat, Cost Stickiness as a Consequence of Capital Market Signaling (October 11, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3264542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3264542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky"?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Balakrishnan , T S Gruca
Cost stickiness and core competency: A note
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 993 - 1006 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Balakrishnan , M J Petersen , N S Soderstrom
Does capacity utilization affect the "stickiness" of cost?
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 283 - 300 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R D Banker , D Byzalov
Asymmetric cost behavior
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 43 - 79 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,091
RANK
337,747
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies