Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Soft Information Production and Investment in Specific Assets

39 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2018

Shubhashis Gangopadhyay

India Development Foundation; University of Gothenburg; University of Groningen, Faculty of Economics and Business, Students; Indian School of Public Policy

Radhika Lunawat

University of California, Irvine - Accounting Area

Clas Wihlborg

Chapman University; University West

Date Written: October 27, 2018

Abstract

We analyse how soft information acquired at a cost by a lender affects the debt contract between the lender and a project manager, and the manager’s incentive to invest in a specific asset. Under certain conditions, the lender chooses to acquire soft information about the profitability of the manager’s specific investment. The lender can increase the accuracy of the soft information by incurring greater costs. The project requires a debt financed general asset about which hard information is revealed. This information allows for a debt covenant, which allows the lender to terminate the project early. This ability contributes under specific conditions to the total return on the project, which is divided between the lender and the manager in a manner that depends on competitive condition in the loan market. We show how the manager’s incentive to invest in the specific asset is increasing in the accuracy of the soft information for a range of parameters. Under different conditions, the manager chooses a debt contract that does not rely on soft information and does not incorporate a debt covenant.

Keywords: Soft Information, Information Quality, Investment in Specific Asset, Project Termination, Revoking Debt Contract

JEL Classification: D82, D84, D86, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gangopadhyay, Shubhashis and Lunawat, Radhika and Wihlborg, Clas, Soft Information Production and Investment in Specific Assets (October 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3273974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3273974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,421
RANK
724,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies