Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short Selling, Earnings Management, and Firm Value

40 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2018

Jinzhi Lu

Department of Accountancy, City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: October 23, 2018

Abstract

This paper studies the interaction between short selling and earnings management (misreporting). I show informed short selling and uninformed short selling play different interaction roles. Ex post, informed short selling facilitates the detection of misreporting, whereas uninformed short selling distorts the detection of misreporting. Ex ante, short selling can affect the manager's choice of misreporting level. The main conclusions of this paper are as follows: (1) Whether uninformed short selling should be banned can depend on the trade-off between the ex-ante reduction in misreporting and the ex-post increase in distortion; (2) banning informed short selling may reduce misreporting, but always reduces firm value.

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Jinzhi, Short Selling, Earnings Management, and Firm Value (October 23, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3278961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3278961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Qi Chen , Itay Goldstein , Wei Jiang
Price informativeness and investment sensitivity to stock price
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 619 - 650 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Douglas W Diamond , Robert E Verrecchia
Constraints on short-selling and asset price adjustment to private information
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 18 , p. 277 - 311 Posted: 1987
Crossref
James Dow , Gary Gorton
Stock market efficiency and economic efficiency: is there a connection?
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 1087 - 1129
Crossref
Art Durnev , Claudine Mangen
Corporate investments: Learning from restatements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 679 - 720 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
662,989
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies