Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Defense of Limited Manufacturing Cost Control: Disciplining Acquisition of Private Information by Suppliers

29 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2018

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: November 26, 2018

Abstract

When a firm’s input supplier can acquire private information to gain an edge in negotiations, we show that the firm can blunt the supplier’s informational advantage by permitting cost inefficiencies in internal production. Specifically, we establish that a modest increase in the cost of the input(s) a firm makes internally credibly commits it to be more aggressive in negotiations with a supplier for the input(s) it buys. Recognizing its potential information rents will be limited, the supplier, in turn, becomes less aggressive in information acquisition. The paper fully characterizes the equilibrium – the firm’s cost-cutting investments, the supplier’s information acquisition decision, and the terms of trade – to demonstrate that often-maligned internal bloat can be an endogenous facilitator of efficient outsourcing.

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Mittendorf, Brian and Ramanan, Ram, In Defense of Limited Manufacturing Cost Control: Disciplining Acquisition of Private Information by Suppliers (November 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3291470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3291470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Antle , J Fellingham
Resource rationing and organizational slack in a two-period model
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Antle , J Fellingham
Information rents and preferences among information systems in a model of resource allocation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 58 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,683
RANK
213,801
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies