Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Word-of-Mouth Communication, Noise-Driven Volatility, and Public Disclosure

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2020.101363

Posted: 27 Dec 2018 Last revised: 28 Sep 2020

Hao Xue

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Ronghuo Zheng

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: October 9, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines how a firm adjusts its disclosure quality in response to technological innovations that improve investors' private information. We show that more precise private information can endogenously amplify supply shocks and, hence, increase noise-driven (or non-fundamental) price volatility. We study how the firm reacts to such changes and derive a necessary and sufficient condition under which the firm improves its disclosure quality when investors are informed with better private signals. We then apply our model to study investors' private word-of-mouth communication. Our analysis highlights a "dark side" of word-of-mouth communication and a call for better public disclosure even if private communication is assumed to be unbiased and truthful. We provide empirical predictions regarding how price volatility, market depth, and firms' disclosure qualities would change as technological innovations, such as social media, facilitate information sharing among investors.

Keywords: Public Disclosure; Private Information; Word-of-Mouth Communication; Price Volatility

JEL Classification: D82, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Xue, Hao and Zheng, Ronghuo, Word-of-Mouth Communication, Noise-Driven Volatility, and Public Disclosure (October 9, 2018). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2020.101363, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3298151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3298151
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,095
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies