Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Arbitrage and Non-linear Taxes

42 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2019

Marcus Becker

Free University of Berlin (FUB) - Department of Banking and Finance

Andreas Löffler

Free University of Berlin (FUB)

Date Written: December 29, 2018

Abstract

Incorporating a progressive or convex income tax into valuation problems raises the question of the appropriate tax rate to use in common valuation formulas. We apply arbitrage theory in a riskless, as well as risky, (multi-period) economy to answer this question. It turns out that the appropriate tax rate depends on the marginal tax rate of the investor’s initial endowment.

With tax liabilities that are a convex function of the tax base we identify a new kind of arbitrage: trading strategies where the gains from trades remain unchanged if this strategy is applied multiple times. We call these strategies ‘bounded’ arbitrage opportunities.

Going beyond earlier research, we are able to give a complete characterization based on properties of the tax liability function as to whether bounded as well as unbounded arbitrage opportunities will exist.

Keywords: No-Arbitrage with Taxation, Fundamental Theorem of Asset Pricing, Non-Constant Tax Rates, Application of Convex Optimization Problems

JEL Classification: C61, E62, G12, H24

Suggested Citation:

Becker, Marcus and Löffler, Andreas, Arbitrage and Non-linear Taxes (December 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3307833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3307833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M W Baxter
Financial calculus -An introduction to derivative pricing. eng Posted: 2003
David F Bradford
Taxes, Market Valuation and Corporate Financial Policy
Taxation, wealth, and saving , volume 4 , p. 417 - 427 Posted: 1970
Robert M Dammon , Richard C Green
Tax Arbitrage and the Existence of Equilibrium Prices for Financial Assets
The Journal of Finance , volume 5 , issue 42 , p. 1143 - 1166 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Jaime Dermody , R Cuevas , Tyrrell Rockafellar
Cash Stream Valuation In the Face of Transaction Costs and Taxes
Mathematical Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,754
RANK
708,207
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies