Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure in Light of Control Concerns

33 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2019

Abstract

The centrality of private information in the design of accounting institutions has been explored via agency models that address control concerns as well as disclosure models that amplify valuation issues. Somewhat surprisingly, the joint analysis of control and valuation considerations, and their implication for firms’ voluntary disclosure practices have not received much attention. Our paper addresses this shortcoming. With embedded control and valuation concerns, the nature of the firm’s disclosure in the stock market is altered profoundly – disclosure is two-tailed or intermediate, but not single-tailed as is the norm in the disclosure literature bereft of control problems. The severity of the control problem is also altered in that disclosure changes managerial incentives to acquire and exploit private information.

Keywords: adverse selection, control problems, private information, voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Ramanan, Ram, Voluntary Disclosure in Light of Control Concerns (January 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314678
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The interaction among disclosure, competition between firms, and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 321 - 339 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Delegating disclosure and production choices
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 3 , p. 835 - 857 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Darrough , N Stoughton
Financial disclosure policy in an entry game
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 12 , p. 219 - 243 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,571
RANK
222,024
5 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies