Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and Location of Intangibles - Spillover and Tax Avoidance through Proﬁt Shifting

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.2308/JMAR-19-052

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2019-01

Posted: 15 Jan 2019 Last revised: 18 Dec 2020

Rebecca Reineke

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Katrin Weiskirchner-Merten

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Finance, Accounting & Statistics

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

This study examines how spillovers affect a multinational company's choice of an intangible's location and the corresponding transfer price for using this intangible. Our model uses a company with a domestic division in a high-tax country and a foreign division in a low-tax country, where each division's activities generate spillovers on the other division's income. In contrast to previous studies, our analysis incorporates an intangible's optimal location when the company trades off tax minimization and efficient activities. By locating the intangible abroad, the company reduces its tax liability, whereas locating the intangible domestically yields more efficient domestic division activities. For a high spillover of the domestic division, the company locates the intangible domestically. Our model supports empirical evidence regarding intangibles' location that is interpreted as “home bias”. Additionally, we show how variations in regulatory parameters—arm's length range and tax rate differential—affect the divisions' activities and the intangible's location.

Keywords: proﬁt shifting, intangibles, spillover, transfer pricing, location

JEL Classification: F23, L24, H26, O34

Suggested Citation:

Reineke, Rebecca and Weiskirchner-Merten, Katrin, Transfer Pricing and Location of Intangibles - Spillover and Tax Avoidance through Proﬁt Shifting (December 1, 2018). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.2308/JMAR-19-052, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2019-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3314732
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies