Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Clarity Trumps Content: An Experiment on Information Acquisition in Beauty Contests

61 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2019

Sanjay Banerjee

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Hong Qu

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business

Ran Zhao

Peking University

Date Written: January 17, 2019

Abstract

We study agents' information acquisition decisions in a beauty contest game when they can access multiple information sources with different content and clarity. Each information source sends a signal with a common noise, and each agent observes this signal with an additional idiosyncratic noise. An information source has high content if it has low common noise and high clarity if it has low idiosyncratic noise. Theory predicts that under strong beauty contest incentives, agents ignore information from a source with high content if it has low clarity. Instead, they acquire equally costly information from a source with higher clarity despite its lower content. Our experimental results confirm the directional predictions; however the under-acquisition of the less-clear source is more severe than theoretical predictions. A source with low clarity is ignored even when its cost is negligible. Our findings provide a new strategic perspective to explain the differential impacts of content and clarity in corporate disclosures.

Keywords: bounded rationality, investor attention, coordination, information acquisition

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Sanjay and Qu, Hong and Zhao, Ran, Clarity Trumps Content: An Experiment on Information Acquisition in Beauty Contests (January 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3317311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3317311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty contests and iterated expectations in asset markets
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R M Anctil , J Dickhaut , C Kanodia , B Shapiro
Information transparency and coordination failure: Theory and experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 195 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G.-M Angeletos , A Pavan
Transparency of information and coordination in economies with investment complementarities
American Economic Review , volume 94 , issue 2 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
On the synergy between disclosure and investment beauty contests
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 273 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,021
RANK
357,435
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies