Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Complementarity between Signal Informativeness and Monitoring

47 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2019 Last revised: 15 Jul 2022

Pierre Chaigneau

Queen's University; Queen’s University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Nicolas Sahuguet

HEC Montreal - Institute of Applied Economics

Date Written: July 2022

Abstract

A firm that must decide whether to retain or terminate a manager can rely on several sources of information to assess managerial ability. When it relies on a performance signal and monitoring, we show that a more informative signal can surprisingly increase the value of monitoring. Then, signal precision and monitoring are complements. This happens if a more precise information system makes some signals more negative indicators of managerial ability that still do not trigger termination. When the turnover cost is high enough and the manager is more entrenched after a positive performance, an increase in signal precision increases expected monitoring. In firms with a high turnover cost, a less informative signal is compounded by worse monitoring after a disappointing performance. This ``bad corporate governance trap'' makes it hard for these firms to eventually improve performance.

Keywords: board monitoring, corporate governance system, governance complementarity, hard and soft information, informativeness

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M12

Suggested Citation:

Chaigneau, Pierre and Sahuguet, Nicolas, The Complementarity between Signal Informativeness and Monitoring (July 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3324589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
C Aghamolla , T Hashimoto
Aggressive Boards and CEO Turnover
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , p. 437 - 486 Posted: 2021
A Almazan , S Banerji , A De Motta
Attracting Attention: Cheap Managerial Talk and Costly Market Monitoring
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 1399 - 1436 Posted: 2008
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,788
RANK
186,854
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies