Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure Around Asset Divestitures

38 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2019

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: March 2019

Abstract

The existence of many markets that a firm simultaneously accesses creates information transfers, wherein the price formed in one market reveals information to another. Specifically, when the firm divests an asset, facilitating the information transfer from the firm's stock market to the divestiture market may be valuable to the firm. With such interaction between markets, the usual intuition of disclosures enhancing information does not always hold. Disclosures may create distracting noise and obscure information signals revealed by the firm's stock price and suppress the information transfer. In such a situation, the firm may withhold disclosure -- even ones whose content may have a positive effect on its valuation -- not to hide anything, but to facilitate the information transfer.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, asset sales, stock market learning, information transfer

Suggested Citation:

Ramanan, Ram, Voluntary Disclosure Around Asset Divestitures (March 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3347059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3347059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital budgeting, the hold-up problem, and information system design
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Arya , J C Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N Ramanan
Synergy between Accounting Disclosures and Forward-Looking Information in Stock Prices
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M N Darrough , N M Stoughton
Financial disclosure policy in an entry game
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 12 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 219 - 243 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,205
RANK
545,411
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies