Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting and Financial Contagion: the Effect of Marking up

48 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2019 Last revised: 20 Mar 2025

Chao Tang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 22, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines how fair value accounting can create financial contagion by allowing financially healthy banks to mark up their assets to fair value. Prior research has primarily focused on the economic consequences of marking down, whereas this study contributes to the literature by highlighting a novel trade-off of marking up. On one hand, a healthy bank obtains additional regulatory capital by marking up its assets, which enables it to acquire an insolvent bank that would otherwise be liquidated in an inefficient secondary market. On the other hand, the possibility of acquiring another bank may coordinate banks to raise more deposits ex ante. As a result, the failure of the insolvent bank can trigger the healthy bank's failure even if it would have survived without the acquisition, leading to financial contagion and systemic bank failures. I demonstrate that due to this trade-off, marking up may decrease social welfare and is therefore undesirable.

Keywords: Fair Value Accounting, Financial Contagion, Capital Regulation, Coordination

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Chao, Fair Value Accounting and Financial Contagion: the Effect of Marking up (March 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3358180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3358180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
V V Acharya , T Yorulmazer
Too many to fail-an analysis of timeinconsistency in bank closure policies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2007
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
A Arya , J Glover
Tracks: Bailouts and unwanted coordination
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 117 Posted: 2006
A Banal-Estañol , M Ottaviani , A Winton
The ‡ip side of …nancial synergies: Coinsurance versus risk contamination
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 12 , p. 3142 - 3181 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,507
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies