Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Changes, Asset Substitution, and Debt Contracting

71 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2019

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Date Written: March 20, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines whether firms benefit, in debt contracting, from committing to incorporate future GAAP changes (referred to as rolling GAAP) or not to incorporate any future changes (referred to as frozen GAAP). We show that informative future accounting changes do not necessarily improve efficiency of debt contracts. We develop a parsimonious model to examine the interplay between a firm's investment decisions made ex ante and the accounting information revealed ex post the rule change. A firm borrows fund and makes investment decisions (project selection and effort choice) before a regulator may change accounting rules, which enable the creditor to observe an accounting signal about the project state. The firm rationally anticipates such a signal and tailors investment decisions accordingly. For example, if the firm knows that a bad project state is likely to be revealed, it will select a more risky technology and exacerbate asset substitution. In such a case, accounting changes might reduce the overall efficiency of debt contracting by distorting the firm's ex ante investment decisions. If asset substitution is sufficiently severe, accounting changes unambiguously reduce the firm's expected payoff and the efficiency of debt contracting, even though they might reduce information asymmetry between the lender and the borrower. Under such a scenario, a firm would prefer not to incorporate future accounting changes.

Keywords: Information Asymmetry, Asset Substitution, Accounting Information Precision, Debt Contracting

JEL Classification: G21, G32, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Darrough, Masako N. and Deng, Mingcherng, Accounting Changes, Asset Substitution, and Debt Contracting (March 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3359922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3359922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Aghion , P Bolton
An Incomplete Contracts Approach to Financial Contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Commitment Issues in Budgeting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 273 - 278 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital Budgeting, the Hold-Up Problem, and Information System Design
Management Science , volume 46 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,386
RANK
564,093
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies