Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entropy and Accounting

35 Pages Posted: 13 May 2019

John C. Fellingham

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Haijin Lin

University of Houston

Douglas Schroeder

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: April 12, 2019

Abstract

In this paper we establish an equivalence between accounting numbers and information. The information numbers are denominated in entropy which is a measure of uncertainty and is a function of probabilities only. Mutual information is defined as the reduction of entropy when an information source X is available. We state that the log of one plus the accounting rate equals to the sum of the risk free rate and mutual information. Three conditions are sufficient: (i) long run decision frame; (ii) arbitrage free prices; and (iii) accounting valuation approximating discounted cash flows while the discount rate is the sum of risk free rate and mutual information.

We derive two versions of the equivalence; they differ only in the measure of mutual information. One version is for when states of the world are observable and mutual information is the reduction of classical or Shannon entropy. If all possible states of the world are observable (and contractible), then all transactions can be consummated in the marketplace. Hence, firms, and the accounting for firms, might not arise. We extend the results by modeling state unobservability using quantum measurement techniques. The equivalence relation remains the same with quantum measurement probabilities substituted for classical probabilities and mutual information is the reduction of quantum entropy. The classical state observable case is seen to be a special case of the quantum equivalence.

Keywords: information, accounting rate of return, Shannon entropy, quantum entropy, mutual information

JEL Classification: C61, D81

Suggested Citation:

Fellingham, John C. and Lin, Haijin and Schroeder, Douglas, Entropy and Accounting (April 12, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3371246 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3371246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Thomas M Cover , Joy A Thomas
Elements of Information Theory Posted: 1991
Crossref
Joel S Demski
Managerial Uses of Accounting Information. Springer series in accounting scholarship Posted: 2008
John Fellingham , Haijin Lin
Is accounting an information science
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium. Forthcoming Posted: 2019
Crossref
E T Jaynes
Probability Theory: The Logic of Science Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,774
RANK
292,443
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies