Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Hurdle Rate in Divisional Performance Evaluation and New Product Development with Alternative Opportunities

13 Pages Posted: 13 May 2019

Yasuhiro Mazda

Tohoku University - Graduate School of Economics & Management

Date Written: March 31, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the role of hurdle rate in new product development in the situation where the divisional manager is delegated to manage such projects.

I show hurdle rate basically helps control the manager's behaviors regarding risk taking decision and labor intensive expenditures.

I analyze several modified cases and show that there exist cases where such a role of hurdle rate does not function due to the existence of withdrawal opportunities from new product development projects.

Keywords: hurdle rate, new product development, labor intensive expenditure, performance evaluation, innovation

JEL Classification: G31, M41, O31

Suggested Citation:

Mazda, Yasuhiro, The Role of Hurdle Rate in Divisional Performance Evaluation and New Product Development with Alternative Opportunities (March 31, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3371778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3371778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
R A Brealy , S G Myers , F Allen
IPS Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2016
S M Datar , M V Rajan
Horngren's Cost Accounting a Managerial Emphasis Posted: 2018
Summers Poterba , U S Ceo Survey Of , Companies
Time Horizon and Hurdle Rates
Sloan Management Review , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 53 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies