Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Leaks and Voluntary Disclosure

34 Pages Posted: 13 May 2019

Michael Ebert

University of Paderborn

Ulrich Schäfer

University of Vienna

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 13, 2019

Abstract

We study firms’ voluntary disclosures in a world of potential information leaks. We find that managers adapt their disclosure strategy to the likelihood and expected scope of leaks. An increasing likelihood fosters voluntary disclosure if leaks merely expose the manager’s information endowment and impedes disclosure if leaks in addition uncover the content of the manager’s information. We identify a non-monotonic effect on voluntary disclosure if the scope of information leakage is uncertain, i.e., if leaks reveal the information content with positive probability. Our results imply that information leaks are likely to increase voluntary disclosure whenever investors have difficulties interpreting the economic consequences of the leaked information. This is typically the case in industries with complex business models and innovative products. In mature industries, leaked information replaces voluntary disclosure. Our findings may help explaining mixed empirical evidence on voluntary disclosure in different reporting environments.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, information leakage, information endowment, market transparency

JEL Classification: M41, G14, D82, C02

Suggested Citation:

Ebert, Michael and Schäfer, Ulrich and Schneider, Georg Thomas, Information Leaks and Voluntary Disclosure (April 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3372141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3372141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Divya Anantharaman , Yuan Zhang
Cover Me: Managers' Responses to Changes in Analyst Coverage in the Post-Regulation FD Period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Mark Bagnoli , Ted Bergstrom
Log-concave Probability and Its Applications
Economic Theory 26 , volume 2 , p. 445 - 469 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Warren Bailey
Regulation Fair Disclosure and Earnings Information: Market, Analyst, and Corporate Responses
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 2487 - 2514 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Karthik Balakrishnan
Shaping Liquidity: On the Causal Effects of Voluntary Disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,956
RANK
104,285
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies