Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Transparency in Crowdfunding

105 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2019 Last revised: 17 Aug 2023

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Chao Tang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Xin Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Business Administration

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 29, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the real effects of information transparency in crowdfunding markets. Our analysis identifies that crowdfunding provides a benefit for an entrepreneur to learn consumers' preferences before deciding whether to implement an innovative project. However, the crowdfunding market also features an under-implementation inefficiency, driven by two types of uncertainty that consumers face: fundamental uncertainty about the entrepreneur's implementation cost, and strategic uncertainty due to potential coordination failures among consumers. We find that greater transparency regarding the implementation cost, although diminishes the fundamental uncertainty, may not necessarily mitigate the strategic uncertainty. We obtain a somewhat surprising result that, from an ex ante perspective, greater transparency actually makes the under-implementation problem even worse, thus impairing efficiency.



Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Tang, Chao and Wang, Xin and Zhang, Gaoqing, The Real Effects of Transparency in Crowdfunding (October 29, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3414252 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3414252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Ajay Agrawal , Christian Catalini , Avi Goldfarb
Some Simple Economics of Crowdfunding
Innovation Policy and the Economy , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 97 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Anil Arya , John Fellingham , Jonathan Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital Budgeting, the Hold-Up Problem, and Information System Design
Management Science , volume 46 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Stephen Morris , Hyun Song Shin
Beauty Contests and Iterated Expectations in Asset Markets
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
Crossref
George-Marios Angeletos , Chen Lian
Incomplete information in macroeconomics: Accommodating frictions in coordination
Handbook of Macroeconomics , volume 2 , p. 1065 - 1240 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,939
RANK
177,635
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies