Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theoretical Analysis Connecting Conservative Accounting to the Cost of Capital

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

Columbia Business School Research Paper

56 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2019

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

Xiao-Jun Zhang

University of California, Berkeley; China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

We connect conservative accounting to the cost of capital by developing an accounting model within an asset pricing framework. The model has three distinctive features: (1) transaction-cycle-conformity, where the book value equals the value of cash at the beginning and the end of a cash-to-cash transaction cycle; (2) a revenue recognition principle, where uncertainty affects the amount of revenues recognized; (3) a matching principle, where expenses are matched with revenue with a conservative bias due to uncertainty. We demonstrate how the growth rate of expected earnings, the accruals-to-cash ratio, and the expected earnings yield relate to the expected stock return.

Keywords: conservative accounting, risk and return, earnings growth, accruals, earnings yield

JEL Classification: M41,G12

Suggested Citation:

Penman, Stephen H. and Zhang, Xiao-Jun, A Theoretical Analysis Connecting Conservative Accounting to the Cost of Capital (May 1, 2019). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Columbia Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Ray Ball , Gil Sadka , Ayung Tseng
Using Accounting Earnings and Aggregate Economic Indicators to Estimate Firm-level Systematic Risk
Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming · 61 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2019 · Last revised: 13 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 692
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stephen H. Penman , Julie Zhu , Haofei Wang
The Implied Cost of Capital: Accounting for Growth
Columbia Business School Research Paper Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 25 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 1 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 809
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard Barker , Andrew Lennard , Stephen H. Penman , Alan Teixeira
Accounting for Intangible Assets: Suggested Solutions
37 Pages · Posted: 25 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 574
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anne Beyer , Kevin Smith
Learning about Risk-Factor Exposures from Earnings: Implications for Asset Pricing and Manipulation
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper · 50 Pages · Posted: 9 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 29 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 390
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,255
RANK
60,915
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies