Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Early Warning Signals and Risk-Shifting Incentives

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2019 Last revised: 20 Oct 2022

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Ronghuo Zheng

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: October 11, 2022

Abstract

We study the optimal information system design in a debt contracting setting in which managers can engage in value destroying risk-shifting behavior. The information system issues early-warning signals that allow lenders to take corrective actions such as liquidating unprofitable projects. When managers are empire builders, the optimal system exhibits a conservative bias that leads to excessive early-warning signals and excessive project liquidations relative to first best. In contrast, when managers have a strong preference for a quiet life, the optimal system exhibits a liberal bias that leads to insufficient early-warning signals and excessive project continuations. The broad intuition is that excessive liquidations (continuations) impose costs on managers who have a preference for empire building (a quiet life), and these costs are more severe when managers take excessive risks. The bias in the information system therefore permits managers to commit not to engage in risk shifting and facilitates debt financing.

Keywords: commitment; risk shifting; information system; early warning

JEL Classification: G30; G32; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Laux, Volker and Zheng, Ronghuo, Early Warning Signals and Risk-Shifting Incentives (October 11, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3437073 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3437073
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
A Arya , J C Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
A Arya , N Gong , R N Ramanan
Quality testing and product rationing by input suppliers , volume 23 , p. 1835 - 1844 Posted: 2014
T Baldenius
Delegated investment decisions and private benefits of control
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 909 - 930 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,832
RANK
196,357
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies