Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosing to Conceal: Impeding Competitor Learning from the Stock Market

29 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2019

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: September 6, 2019

Abstract

A firm’s stock price may reveal information that the firm itself might not want to share. In particular, stock price may reveal information about future demand, which when learned by a rival undercuts the firm’s competitive position. This paper establishes that when a firm discloses cost information it can confound decision-relevant demand information embedded in the stock price that a rival can otherwise extract. With stock price valuing firm profit (not cost and revenue separately), a disconnect is introduced between the firm’s actions and its intent – it discloses more on one dimension when its intent is to conceal on another. Consequently, a firm’s disclosure must be made strategically accounting for both direct communication as well as indirect information transmission via its stock price. From the firm’s perspective, the “competitive upside” from disclosing to keep the rival in the dark about market demand is evaluated against the “valuation downside” from disclosing more unfavorable cost information.

Keywords: Competition; Financial Experts; Stock price Informativeness; Voluntary Disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Ramanan, Ram, Disclosing to Conceal: Impeding Competitor Learning from the Stock Market (September 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3449544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3449544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Ali , T Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Using disclosure to influence herd behavior and alter competition
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1-3 , p. 231 - 246 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N Ramanan
Synergy between accounting disclosures and forward-looking information in stock prices
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Oligopoly, disclosure, and earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1191 - 1214 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,386
RANK
345,746
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies