Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Fixed Assets and Investment Efficiency: A Real Options Framework

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2019

Lufei Ruan

San Francisco State University

Date Written: September 27, 2019

Abstract

In a perfect world, a manager's investment in fixed assets would increase with the assets' profitability. However, when managers privately know their project profitability and care about their company’s short-term share price, managers of less profitable firms face the temptation to overinvest in order to pool with strong firms. This creates pressure on strong firms to overinvest to the point where weak firms cease to find it worthwhile to mimic strong firms. I show that, when firms have abandonment options, the willingness of a weak firm's manager to mimic depends on the expected future resale value of the fixed assets. An impairment policy (prohibiting write-ups) reduces the value of abandonment options, which are particularly important for weak firms. The reduced value of the abandonment options decreases the amount of overinvestment required by strong firms to separate themselves from weak firms. I also show that allowing firms to choose depreciation schedules improves investment efficiency: in equilibrium, strong firms choose faster depreciation. Last, in the staged-investments setting, I show that an impairment policy also mitigates underinvestment at an initial stage. These findings rationalize the current accounting standards for fixed assets and contribute to related policy debates on accounting measurement.

Keywords: accounting for fixed assets, conservatism, investment efficiency, abandonment options, staged investments, real options

JEL Classification: G31, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ruan, Lufei, Accounting for Fixed Assets and Investment Efficiency: A Real Options Framework (September 27, 2019). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3460792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,066
RANK
336,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies