Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of International Tax Information Exchange Agreements on the Use of Tax Amnesty: Evidence from Norway

NHH Dept. of Economics Discussion Paper No. 16/2019

43 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2019

Jonas Andersson

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Fred Schroyen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Economics

Gaute Torsvik

University of Oslo, Dept of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 30, 2019

Abstract

In this paper we develop a model for tax amnesty applications in a multi-period setting. One key insight from the model is that applying for amnesty becomes more attractive at the moment when stricter enforcement is announced, even if the implementation of the policy is in the distant future. We use our model to make sense of how international tax information exchange agreements affects voluntary disclosure of wealth and income previously hidden in tax havens. Our data is from Norway. In accordance with the dynamic amnesty model we observe a strong announcement effect of a tax information exchange agreement between Norway and Switzerland and Luxembourg, the two most important tax havens for Norwegian tax evaders. However, the effect levels off very quickly, much faster than our model predicts. We think this is because the initial announcement of the tax agreement exaggerated the risk the agreement imposed to those who had hidden taxable income and wealth in Switzerland. We also estimate and find significant effects of the press releases the Norwegian Tax Authority issues to inform taxpayers about new international tax agreements and the amnesty, or voluntary disclosure, option that exists in the Norwegian tax code.

Keywords: Tax Evasion, Tax Amnesty, Tax Information Exchange Agreement

JEL Classification: H26, H27, K34, C22, C23

Suggested Citation:

Andersson, Jonas and Schroyen, Fred and Torsvik, Gaute, The Impact of International Tax Information Exchange Agreements on the Use of Tax Amnesty: Evidence from Norway (September 30, 2019). NHH Dept. of Economics Discussion Paper No. 16/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3463645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3463645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Andreoni
The desirability of a permanent tax amnesty
Journal of Public Economics , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 159 Posted: 1991
Crossref
R W Blundell , M Francesconi , W Van Der Klaauw
Anatomy of welfare reform evaluation: announcement and implementation effects Posted: 2011
J Caballé , A Pomansky
Mixed risk aversion
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 485 - 513 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
RANK
224,339
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies