Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and Asset Price

14 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2019

Guo Ying Luo

McMaster University

Date Written: July 7, 2017

Abstract

This paper presents a static model of a competitive securities market. In the market there are two assets: risk-free asset and risky asset. The payoff of the risk-free asset is one and the payoff of the risky asset is unknown. Rational traders correctly estimate the mean and variance of the risky asset payoff. Earnings fixated traders are functionally fixated on accounting earnings numbers. Due to the conservative accounting practices, earnings fixated traders underestimate the mean and variance of the risky asset payoff. Noise traders' demand for the risky asset is assumed to be random. This paper proves analytically that the presence of accounting conservatism decreases the asset price and the volatility of the asset price and it increases the expected return of the asset. In addition, this paper proves that the presence of accounting conservatism decreases the likelihood of the asset price lying on the right tail of its distribution and depending on the model parameter values, the presence of accounting conservatism may increase or decrease the likelihood of the asset price lying on the left tail of its distribution.

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Guo Ying, Accounting Conservatism and Asset Price (July 7, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3464875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3464875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,016
RANK
708,207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies