Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standard Setting in the Presence of Uninformed Investors

26 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2019

Guo Ying Luo

McMaster University

Date Written: July 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper constructs a model of a standard setting game among informed and uninformed investors, an auditor and standard setters to examine how accounting standard setting interacts with informed and uninformed investors' investment decisions. It proves that the levels of investments of informed and uninformed investors increase with the increase in the accounting standards in the case of bad report (about the project's ability of generating cash flow) being issued by an auditor; however, in the case of good report (about the project's ability of generating cash flow) being issued by the auditor, the levels of investments of informed and uninformed investors can move in the opposite directions as the accounting standard increases. In addition, this paper shows that regardless of investors being informed or not about the project's ability of generating cash flow, the Stackelberg equilibrium accounting standard can lead to a positive expected value of the project.

Keywords: accounting standard setting, uninformed investors, Stackelberg equilibrium, auditing

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Guo Ying, Accounting Standard Setting in the Presence of Uninformed Investors (July 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3464879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3464879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
785
RANK
897,300
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies