Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Irrelevance of the Reported Earnings Numbers and Informativeness of the Asset Price under the Conservative Accounting: Implications on Mark to Market Accounting

23 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2019

Guo Ying Luo

McMaster University

Date Written: July 6, 2019

Abstract

This paper presents an one-period model of an one-asset market allowing for the strategic interaction among rational traders and earnings fixated traders. Earnings fixated traders are functionally fixated on the reported earnings numbers in formulating their trading strategies without paying attention to the accounting procedures used to generate those numbers. This paper shows analytically that under the conservative accounting, the reported accounting earnings numbers are value-irrelevant and the informativeness of the asset price improves as the volatility of the reported earnings increases towards the volatility of the economic earnings of the asset. These results support the alternative accounting of mark to market.

Keywords: Value irrelevance of accounting information, earnings fixated traders, Single-period model of Kyle (1985), conservative accounting, mark to market accounting

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Guo Ying, Value Irrelevance of the Reported Earnings Numbers and Informativeness of the Asset Price under the Conservative Accounting: Implications on Mark to Market Accounting (July 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3464877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3464877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
833
RANK
826,677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies