Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tightening Accounting Standards on the Quality of the Reported Earnings and the Level of Earnings Management

18 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2019

Guo Ying Luo

McMaster University

Date Written: November 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper constructs a one-period model of a reporting game where the manager is risk neutral and the asset market is perfectly competitive. The manager chooses the level of the accounting earnings to report to the market in order to influence the market value of the firm. The reported earnings number is transmitted to the market through earnings fixated traders' trading strategies in the market. However, conducting earnings management generates disutility to the manager. This paper proves analytically that tightening accounting standards leads to a lower variability and higher value relevance of the reported earnings. This paper also proves that tightening accounting standards decreases the level of the expected earnings management. These results can be very useful to standard setters in considering tightening accounting standards.

Keywords: earnings fixated traders, tightening accounting standards, value relevance of reported earnings, earnings management

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Guo Ying, The Effect of Tightening Accounting Standards on the Quality of the Reported Earnings and the Level of Earnings Management (November 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3464880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3464880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
884
RANK
640,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies