Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Pre-contract Information about an Agent's Ability in the Presence of Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection

53 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2019

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Shaopeng Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lucas Threinen

Independent

Date Written: October 18, 2019

Abstract

We analyze the expected value of information about an agent's type in the presence of moral hazard and adverse selection. Information about the agent's type enables the principal to sort/screen agents of different types. The value of the information decreases in the variability of output and the agent's risk aversion, two factors that are typically associated with the severity of the moral hazard problem. However, the value of the information about agent type first increases but ultimately decreases in the severity of adverse selection. The decrease comes about because the means available to the principal to induce effort — namely, the pay-performance sensitivity — must also be used to sort/screen agents, and these two goals conflict. This decline in value occurs despite the monotonically increasing importance of the information in determining the principal's expected profits. Further, we show that the peak value of information occurs at a predictable level of adverse selection. These results imply that over some range, the importance of the information will be increasing, while the value of the information will be simultaneously decreasing, in the severity of adverse selection.

Keywords: Principal and Agent, Pre-contract Information, Moral Hazard, Adverse Selection

JEL Classification: D82, J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Darrough, Masako N. and Li, Shaopeng and Threinen, Lucas, The Value of Pre-contract Information about an Agent's Ability in the Presence of Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection (October 18, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3472106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Amershi , R Banker , S Datar
Economic Sufficiency and Statistical Sufficiency in Accounting Aggregation
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , p. 113 - 130 Posted: 1990
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Offering Stock Options to Gauge Managerial Talent
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 189 - 210 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The Benefits Of Aggregate Performance Metrics In The Presence Of Career Concerns
Management Science , volume 57 , p. 1424 - 1437 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Autrey , S Dikolli , P Newman
Performance Measure Aggregation, Career Incentives, and Explicit Incentives
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 22 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,116
RANK
572,087
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies