Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The (Limited) Power of Blockchain Networks for Information Provision

Franke, B., Fritz, Q. G., & Stenzel, A. (2023). The (limited) power of blockchain networks for information provision. Management Science. https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2023.4718

Posted: 5 Nov 2019 Last revised: 20 Sep 2023

Benedikt Franke

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Qi Gao Fritz

SKEMA Business School

André Stenzel

Bank of Canada

Date Written: March 10, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the potential and limits of privacy-preserving corporate blockchain applications for information provision. We provide a theoretical model in which heterogeneous firms choose between adopting a blockchain application or relying on traditional third-party intermediaries to inform the capital market. The blockchain's ability to generate information depends on each firm's data profile and all firms' endogenous adoption decisions. We show that blockchain technology can improve the information environment and outperform traditional institutions, with firms' adoption decisions serving as a credible value signal and the application uncovering firm values by analyzing all participating firms' data. However, we also characterize an adverse mixed-adoption equilibrium in which neither of the two channels realizes its full potential and information provision declines not only for individual firms but also in aggregate. The equilibrium is a warning sign that has broad implications for policymakers' regulatory effort and investors' assessment of corporate blockchain applications.

Keywords: Blockchain, Disclosure, Information provision, Peer-to-peer, Technology adoption

JEL Classification: D21, D40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Franke, Benedikt and Gao Fritz, Qi and Stenzel, André, The (Limited) Power of Blockchain Networks for Information Provision (March 10, 2023). Franke, B., Fritz, Q. G., & Stenzel, A. (2023). The (limited) power of blockchain networks for information provision. Management Science. https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2023.4718, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3475383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3475383
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Soo Jin Kim
An Impossible Trinity in Blockchain-based Transactions: Decentralization, Privacy, and Lower Transaction Costs
ShanghaiTech SEM Working Paper No. 2020-010 · 30 Pages · Posted: 6 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 12 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 237
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,998
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies