Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Information Design and Incentive Contracts with Performance Measure Manipulation

49 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2019

Robert F. Göx

University of Zurich - Managerial Accounting; University of Zurich - Faculty of Economics, Business Administration and Information Technology

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: November 18, 2019

Abstract

We study how a firm owner motivates a manager to create value by optimally designing an information system and a compensation contract based on a manipulable performance measure. In equilibrium, the firm either implements a perfect or an uninformative system. The information system and the pay-performance sensitivity (PPS) of the compensation contract can be substitutes in a sense that the firm optimally combines a perfect information system with a low PPS or an uninformative system with a high PPS. Because the information design is endogenous, firms facing relatively high manipulation threat may offer financial incentives that are higher-powered than the ones offered by their peers facing lower manipulation threat. If the manager is in charge of implementing the information system, he chooses a perfect one unless the firm uses the information for internal control. The firm may prefer to commit to an internal control level before observing any information.

Keywords: Bayesian persuasion, ex ante information design, performance manipulation, earnings management, incentive contracting, multi-task problem

Suggested Citation:

Goex, Robert F. and Michaeli, Beatrice, Optimal Information Design and Incentive Contracts with Performance Measure Manipulation (November 18, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3484199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3484199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Commitment issues in budgeting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 273 - 278 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The Interaction between Decision and Control Problems and the Value of Information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the revelation principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,849
RANK
272,962
3 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies