Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Accounting Standards, Financial Statement Comparability, and the Cost of Capital

International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2020 Last revised: 1 Jul 2020

Yong Huang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Chao Yan

Independent

Date Written: February 13, 2020

Abstract

This paper studies how financial statement comparability affects the cost of capital and investor welfare. We show that the cost of capital decreases with comparability if and only if the quality of accounting standards is sufficiently high, thus supporting the relative importance of comparability as proposed in the Conceptual Framework. We also find that current investors and new investors have different demands for comparability. The welfare of current investors increases in comparability, while the welfare of new investors decreases in comparability. Moreover, the effects of comparability on the cost of capital and investor welfare are enhanced when firms’ idiosyncratic accounting measurements are highly volatile and/or correlated. These basic findings hold in both an exchange economy and a production economy, but there is a certain threshold of investment cost above which the cost of capital and the welfare of new investors decreases with comparability in a production economy. These findings are helpful in understanding the role of comparability and have implications for the global convergence of accounting standards.

Keywords: Accounting Standards; Comparability; Cost of Capital; Investment; Investor Welfare

JEL Classification: D53; G12; G14; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Yong and Yan, Chao, Global Accounting Standards, Financial Statement Comparability, and the Cost of Capital (February 13, 2020). International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3500694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3500694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based Accounting Amounts Comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Bertomeu , E Cheynel
Disclosure and the Cost of Capital: A Survey of the Theoretical Literature
Abacus , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 221 - 258 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Bordeman
Discretion in Revenue Recognition and Financial Reporting Comparability Posted: 2017
Crossref
S Cascino , J Gassen
What Drives the Comparability Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 242 - 282 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
RANK
280,604
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies