Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Myopic Capital Market Concerns and Investment Incentives in Business Alliances

Review of Accounting Studies

49 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2019 Last revised: 23 Jan 2023

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Date Written: October 1, 2022

Abstract

We study a publicly traded firm that cares about its stock market performance, while collaborating with a privately owned firm in a business alliance. The firms each undertake a relation-specific investment and then bargain over the allocation of the joint surplus generated by the alliance. The public firm's market concerns affect both the total size of the surplus and how the surplus is divided by the firms. While the public firm always becomes more aggressive and obtains a higher portion of the surplus, the total size of the surplus may become larger or smaller due to the effect of market concerns on the firms' investment incentives. We establish conditions under which the investment and the value of each firm increase or decrease with market concerns. The market concerns could
mitigate or exacerbate the hold-up problem between the two firms and thus could be either beneficial or detrimental for the whole business alliance. We also study two extensions with (i) the two investments being substitutes instead of complements, and (ii) both firms being publicly listed. In both cases, the insights from our main model still hold true.

Keywords: Business alliance, capital market concerns, holdup problem, investment spillover, specific investment, supply chain

JEL Classification: M40, M21, M11, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Pfeiffer, Thomas, Myopic Capital Market Concerns and Investment Incentives in Business Alliances (October 1, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3504536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R Anctil , S Dutta
Negotiated transfer pricing and divisional vs. …rm-wide performance evaluation
Accounting Review , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 1999
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital budgeting, the hold-up problem, and information system design
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
T Baldenius , S Reichelstein
Negotiated versus cost-based transfer pricing
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 67 - 91 Posted: 1999
T Baldenius , B Michaeli
Investments and risk transfers , volume 92 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,447
RANK
441,693
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies