Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Optimism and Debt Covenants

32 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2020 Last revised: 26 Aug 2021

Jakob Infuehr

University of Southern Denmark

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 25, 2021

Abstract

This paper studies the effects of managerial optimism on the optimal design of debt covenants. We find that managers that are more optimistic about the future success of their investment ideas provide lenders with greater control rights via tighter covenants. This is optimal for optimistic managers even though they understand that tighter covenants increase the probability of covenant violations and lead to excessive lender intervention. The broad reason for this result is that optimists wish to write contracts that repay lenders more frequently in bad states rather than in good states, and the only way to achieve this is by granting lenders more control rights. Our model generates new predictions and offers a novel explanation for the empirical evidence that covenants in debt contracts are set very tightly and are often violated.

Keywords: managerial optimism, heterogeneous priors, debt covenants, control right allocation

JEL Classification: G32, G41, D23, D86

Suggested Citation:

Infuehr, Jakob and Laux, Volker, Managerial Optimism and Debt Covenants (August 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3508354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3508354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An Incomplete Contracts Approach to Financial Contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 94 Posted: 1992
M D Alicke
Global Self-Evaluation as Determined by the Desirability and Controllability of Trait Adjectives
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 49 , p. 1621 - 1651 Posted: 1985
G ; D Arabsheibani , De , Meza
J Maloney; , B Pearson
And a Vision Appeared unto Them of Great Pro…t: Evidence of Self-deception among the Self-employed
Economics Letters , volume 67 , p. 35 - 41 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,004
RANK
221,251
8 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies