Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contract Disclosure under External Scrutiny

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2020 Last revised: 10 Aug 2023

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Tae Wook Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU); University of Texas at Dallas; The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: July 25, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effects of mandating compensation disclosure on executive incentive contracts, earnings management, firm value, and social welfare. We develop a moral hazard model with multiple principal-agent pairs facing an external monitor who allocates resources across firms to verify earnings management. With such scrutiny allocation, contracts exhibit externalities that create a coordination problem among principals. Contract disclosure enables principals to design the contract anticipating the monitor's reaction. However, it may also exacerbate the coordination problem among principals because they do not consider externalities on other principals caused by the effects of their contract choices on the monitor's scrutiny allocation. If internal controls are relatively weak, contract disclosure may make contracts more strongly contingent on reported earnings, increase earnings manipulation, and nevertheless increase social welfare. Contract disclosure improves firm value only if the scrutiny resources available to the monitor are not strongly constrained.

Keywords: Compensation; Contract Disclosure; Coordination; Scrutiny; Earnings Management; Externalities; Enforcement

JEL Classification: C72, D62, G38, M43, M46

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Kim, Tae Wook, Contract Disclosure under External Scrutiny (July 25, 2023). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3515026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3515026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings Management and the Revelation Principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
N Barberis , R Thaler
A Survey of Behavioral Finance
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 1053 - 1128 Posted: 2003
D Baron , D Besanko
Regulation, Asymmetric Information, and Auditing
Journal of Economics , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 447 - 470 Posted: 1984
G Becker
Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,839
RANK
230,777
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies