Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Costly regulatory institutions of enforcement, extent of the market, and rational expectations

49 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2020 Last revised: 23 Jun 2021

Wenjie Xue

Cornerstone Research, Inc.

Date Written: May 17, 2020

Abstract

This paper develops a theory in which public enforcement of financial reporting depends on regulatory institutions that exhibit economy of scale. A more stringent enforcement regime disciplines misreporting, which stimulates investments. However, a government with limited commitment only implements the stringent regime when the market becomes sufficiently large. Although firms collectively have incentives to overinvest to induce excessive public enforcement as a public good, the strategic uncertainty about the others’ investments leads to uncertainty about the future regime. If the reporting environment is not conducive to the expectations of a stringent future regime, the market can instead be undersized and underregulated. Despite a positive cross-sectional association between public enforcement and market size, the markets that feature overenforcement are smaller than those that feature underenforcement. And market size is not a good measure of efficiency to evaluate alternative accounting standards.

Keywords: regulatory enforcement, market development, coordination, higher-order belief

JEL Classification: D78, G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Xue, Wenjie, Costly regulatory institutions of enforcement, extent of the market, and rational expectations (May 17, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3518283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3518283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
D Acemoglu
Why not a political coase theorem? Social conflict, commitment, and politics
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 620 - 652 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Armour
Enforcement strategies in UK corporate governance: A roadmap and empirical assessment. The Law and Economics of Corporate Governance: Changing Perspectives Posted: 2008
R Ball , S Kothari , Robin , A
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four east asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,628
RANK
334,632
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies