Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CECL: Timely Loan Loss Provisioning and Bank Regulation

62 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2020 Last revised: 2 Oct 2022

Lucas Mahieux

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Haresh Sapra

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2022

Abstract

We investigate how provisioning models affect bank regulation. We study an accuracy vs. timeliness trade-off between an incurred loss model (IL) and a current expected credit loss model (CECL). Relative to IL, CECL improves efficiency by enabling timely intervention to curb inefficient ex post asset-substitution even though the imprecise information of CECL entails false alarms. However, from a real effects perspective, our analysis uncovers a potential cost of CECL: banks respond to timely intervention by originating riskier loans so that timely intervention induces timelier risk-taking. By appropriately tailoring regulatory capital to information about credit losses, the regulator can improve the efficiency of CECL. In particular, we show that regulatory capital under CECL would be looser when early estimates of credit losses are sufficiently precise and/or risk-shifting incentives are not too severe. From a policy perspective, our analysis suggests that better coordination between standard setters and bank regulators could enable the latter to relax capital requirements in order to spur lending.

Keywords: CECL; Expected Loss Model; Incurred Loss Model; Capital Requirements; Loan Loss Provisioning; Real Effects; Banking Regulation

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mahieux, Lucas and Sapra, Haresh and Zhang, Gaoqing, CECL: Timely Loan Loss Provisioning and Bank Regulation (September 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3523321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3523321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Jorge Abad , Javier Suarez
The procyclicality of expected credit loss provisions Posted: 2018
Acharya , V Viral , G Stephen , Ryan
Banks' …nancial reporting and …nancial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Pierre-Richard Agenor , Roy Zilberman
Loan loss provisioning rules, procyclicality, and …nancial volatility
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 61 , p. 301 - 315 Posted: 2015
Franklin Allen , Elena Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2-3 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
804
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,570
RANK
70,523
28 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies