Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Signaling Private Information via Accounting System Design

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2020 Last revised: 31 Mar 2022

Aysa Dordzhieva

University of Texas at Austin

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Ronghuo Zheng

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: March 21, 2022

Abstract

This paper shows that firms that wish to raise capital from external investors can signal favorable private information about their long-term prospects by publicly adopting a liberal accounting system that increases the probability of an overstated financial report. All else equal, the liberal bias deteriorates investors' ability to make efficient investment decisions, which increases the firm's cost of raising capital as investors price protect. But the very fact that the firm is willing to adopt such a bias signals booming long-term prospects, which ultimately allows the firm to raise capital at more favorable terms. We also study the effects of accounting standards that require firms to generate unbiased financial reports. Unbiased reporting leads to efficient investment decisions but prevents firms from signaling their private information, which reduces their ex ante incentive to take costly actions that improve long-term prospects. We find that giving firms discretion over reporting choices is optimal in innovative industries, whereas enforcing unbiased reporting is optimal in traditional industries.

Keywords: Information System Design; Accounting Bias; Signaling

JEL Classification: D82; G30; M41

Suggested Citation:

Dordzhieva, Aysa and Laux, Volker and Zheng, Ronghuo, Signaling Private Information via Accounting System Design (March 21, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3551562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3551562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Arya , J C Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Conservative accounting choices
Management Science , volume 51 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
T Baldenius , X Meng
Signaling firm value to active investors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , p. 584 - 619 Posted: 2010
R Barker , A Lennard , S Penman , A Teixeira
Accounting for intangible assets: suggested solutions Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,075
RANK
214,562
11 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies