Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Design with Risk-Dominant Equilibrium Selection and Possibly Heterogeneous Players

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 23

24 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2020 Last revised: 17 Jul 2025

Michael Ebert

University of Paderborn

Joseph (Jay) B. Kadane

Carngeie Mellon University; Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Dirk Simons

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Jack Douglas Stecher

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

We study an information design problem in a 2x2 coordination game of imperfect information with heterogeneous players. In particular, we are interested in how large a designer can make the probability of implementing the uniquely Pareto-dominant equilibrium, given that the players will select her recommended equilibrium only if it is risk dominant. A technical challenge is that, in general, risk dominance makes the designer's problem an indefinite quadratic program. To address this challenge, we characterize the designer's risk-dominance constraint as a matrix of low rank, then use this characterization to establish that the value the designer can achieve is continuous in the players' beliefs and payoffs. We further show sufficient conditions under which the standard linear programming techniques apply.

Keywords: Information Design, Risk Dominance, Indefinite quadratic programming, Binary action supermodular games

JEL Classification: C70, C72, D82

Suggested Citation:

Ebert, Michael and Kadane, Joseph (Jay) B. and Kadane, Joseph (Jay) B. and Simons, Dirk and Stecher, Jack Douglas, Information Design with Risk-Dominant Equilibrium Selection and Possibly Heterogeneous Players (July 15, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3564451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3564451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Bardhi , Y Guo
Modes of persuasion toward unanimous consent
Theoretical Economics , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 1111 - 1149 Posted: 2018
R Battalio , L Samuelson , J Van Huyck
Optimization incentives and coordination failure in laboratory stag hunt games
Econometrica , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 749 - 764 Posted: 2001
D Bergemann , B Brooks , S Morris
First-price auctions with general information structures: implications for bidding and revenue
Econometrica , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 143 Posted: 2017
D Bergemann , S Morris
Bayes correlated equilibrium and the comparison of information structures in games
Theoretical Economics , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 487 - 522 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,337
RANK
308,851
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies