Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Internal Control Disclosure in Financial Reporting Precision and the Quality of Audited Financial Reports

Baruch College Zicklin School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-03-01

36 Pages Posted: 4 May 2020 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Date Written: February 29, 2024

Abstract

We study the impact of internal control disclosure in a model in which a client company privately invests corporate resources in its internal control system that subsequently determines its financial reporting precision. Without internal control disclosure, the capital market cannot observe the precision and must price the client value based on its conjecture. With internal control disclosure requirement, the effectiveness of internal controls is disclosed, which reveals the precision to the market. Thus, internal control disclosure provides the client another channel to influence the market pricing. Contrary to the conventional wisdom, we find that the client tends to invest less in its internal control system with disclosure requirement. As a result of lower precision, internal control disclosure may lower the informativeness of audited financial reports, albeit ex-post communicating more information to the market. We also find that internal control disclosure reduces the client's ex-ante payoff when the auditor bears a high misstatement cost due to audit failure.

Keywords: Internal control; Misstatement cost; Audit quality

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Mingcherng and Wen, Xiaoyan, The Role of Internal Control Disclosure in Financial Reporting Precision and the Quality of Audited Financial Reports (February 29, 2024). Baruch College Zicklin School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-03-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3578030 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3578030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
R Antle , B Nalebu¤
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
D Chan
The e¤ects of internal control reporting regulation on control quality, compensation and audit e¤ort Posted: 2018
Q Chen , X Jiang , Y Zhang
The e¤ects of audit quality disclosure on audit e¤ort and investment e¢ ciency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 4 , p. 189 - 214 Posted: 2019
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Minlei Ye
The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
127 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 10 May 2023 · Downloads: 1,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,664
RANK
556,453
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies