Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leader versus Lagger: How the Timing of Financial Reports Affects Information Quality and Investment Efficiency

52 Pages Posted: 13 May 2020 Last revised: 17 Jun 2021

Nanqin Liu

University of Macau

Xiao-Jun Zhang

University of California, Berkeley; China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR)

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines how the relative timing affects the quality of financial reports in a staggered reporting system. We show that the audit quality of the leader firm exceeds that of the lagger. Investment efficiency also differs systematically across firms depending on the relative reporting timing as well as the ownership structure of audit firms. Audit regulations mitigate misalignment of interests between auditors and investors, but also limit the effect of information spillover. We characterize optimal auditing standards and show, as regulatory tools, how and why imposing minimum audit quality requirements and adjusting auditors' legal liability complement and/or substitute. Overall, a staggered reporting system is shown to dominate a simultaneous reporting system in enhancing audit quality and investment efficiency through regulation.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Timing, Financial Externalities, Audit Quality, Investment Efficiency, Audit Regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Nanqin and Zhang, Xiao-Jun, Leader versus Lagger: How the Timing of Financial Reports Affects Information Quality and Investment Efficiency (April 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3579139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3579139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
A Admati , P ‡eiderer
Forcing …rms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Bar-Yosef , S Bharat
Auditor size, market segmentation and litigation patterns: A theoretical analysis
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 92 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D K Chan , S Pae
An analysis of the economic consequences of the proportionate liability rule
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 457 - 80 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Derek K. Chan , Keith Kit Pong Wong
Scope of Auditors' Liability, Audit Quality, and Capital Investment
Pages: 40 Posted: 3 Aug 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,734
RANK
205,502
2 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies