Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multidimensional Corporate Governance: The Joint Design of Board Structure and Executive Compensation

49 Pages Posted: 6 May 2020 Last revised: 17 May 2024

Kevin D. Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Wayne R. Guay

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Richard Lambert

The Wharton School

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

This paper provides a theoretical framework for studying the joint design of board structure and executive compensation. The conventional view is that as a board monitors more intensely, there is less of a need for high-powered equity incentives. However, to monitor effectively, the board also requires more information from the CEO, and without proper incentives, the CEO may not disclose the information. We formalize this intuition and show that CEO equity incentives are determined jointly with board monitoring and advising. In equilibrium, board advising intensity and equity compensation are negatively (positively) related when the board has high (low) monitoring skill. Further, equity incentives may be positively or negatively related to board monitoring intensity, depending on the nature of board advice. Our analysis sheds light on the observed correlations between board structure and executive compensation and offers new testable predictions about how these ubiquitous governance instruments cluster together.

Keywords: Board monitoring, board advising, equity incentives, corporate governance, disclosure

JEL Classification: G30, G34, D83

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Kevin and Guay, Wayne R. and Lambert, Richard, Multidimensional Corporate Governance: The Joint Design of Board Structure and Executive Compensation (May 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3584848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3584848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Renee B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Renee B Adams , E Benjamin , Michael S Hermalin , Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Andres Almazan , Javier Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Christopher S Armstrong , R Wayne , Joseph P Guay , Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
640
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,879
RANK
94,985
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies