Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Managerial Contract Information in a Vertically Related Market

38 Pages Posted: 29 May 2020

Michael Kopel

University of Graz

Eva Putz

University of Graz

Date Written: May 2, 2020

Abstract

The observability of managerial contract information in duopolies with strategic delegation has been an issue of controversial discussion. In a recent paper, Baik and Lee (2019) endogenize the decision to disclose the details of managerial contracts and show that in equilibrium, the owners of both firms have an incentive to always voluntarily reveal contract information, independent if firms compete in quantities or prices. We study how voluntary disclosure of contract information is affected by the presence of a supplier that provides an input to both firms. We demonstrate that under quantity competition, a partial disclosure equilibrium may occur if product differentiation is low. Disclosing firms punish their managers for sales to soften supplier pricing. Mandating disclosure increases total welfare, but consumer surplus decreases. Under price competition, firms always want to disclose. Finally, firm profits can be higher under price competition than under quantity competition.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, strategic incentives, vertically related markets, quantity and price competition

JEL Classification: D82, L13, L22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kopel, Michael and Putz, Eva, Disclosure of Managerial Contract Information in a Vertically Related Market (May 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3590969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3590969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Disclosure standards for vertical contracts
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 42 , issue 3 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N Ramanan
Beyond prots: The rise of dual-purpose organizations and its consequences for disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf , D.-H Yoon
Public disclosures in the presence of suppliers and competitors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 Posted: 2019
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Competitive intelligence and disclosure
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 46 , issue 4 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Michael Kopel , Eva Putz
Voluntary Disclosure in a Cournot-Bertrand Duopoly
21 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 146
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
255,414
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies