Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Screening Talent: Absolute or Percentile Thresholds?

57 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2020

Ramji Balakrishnan

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Haijin Lin

University of Houston

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

Date Written: April 17, 2020

Abstract

Matching talents to tasks is an important part of job design. Organizations routinely use performance thresholds to group agents by talent. We see thresholds defined both in terms of an individual's own performance (absolute value) and in terms of peer performance (percentiles). Intuition suggests a preference for percentile thresholds because the resulting rank-order statistic is sufficient to assess relative talent. Yet, in the context of a task assignment problem in which the objective is to match talent with task type (using two agents and two task types), we show that absolute thresholds can dominate percentile thresholds under either of two conditions. First, flexibility in task assignment tilts the balance toward absolute thresholds. Second, performance manipulation can adversely affect the inherent advantage of percentile thresholds because they motivate agents to invest relatively more in personally costly influence activities that cast their performance in a favorable light. We examine how these results hold up when there are countably large number of agents and discuss empirical implications.

Keywords: Incentives, Measurement System, Relative Performance Evaluation

JEL Classification: D82, G32, G34, M51, M53

Suggested Citation:

Balakrishnan, Ramji and Lin, Haijin and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva, Screening Talent: Absolute or Percentile Thresholds? (April 17, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3624369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3624369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
S Allgood , K A Farrell
The match between ceo and …rm. the
Journal of Business , volume 76 , p. 317 - 341 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Antle , A Smith
An empirical investigation of the relative performance evaluation of corporate executives
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
Crossref
S Baiman , K Sivaramakrishnan
The value of private pre-decision information in a principal agent context
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 747 - 766 Posted: 1991
D Burgess
What motivates employees to transfer knowledge outside their work unit?
The Journal of Business Communication , volume 42 , p. 324 - 348 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,077
RANK
622,944
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies