Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Debit=Credit, The Balance Constraint in Bookkeeping, Its Causes and Consequences for Accounting

42 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2020

Sander Renes

Delft University of Technology, Faculty of Technology Policy and Management

Date Written: June 11, 2020

Abstract

This paper studies the balance constraint (debit=credit) in bookkeeping, its causes and its consequences for accounting. Balance in the ledger is shown to: 1) imply balance in journal entries and vice versa; 2) link the value definitions in the earnings statement and balance sheet; 3) have direct implications for valuation puzzles encountered in accounting, like accounting for OCI or stock-based compensation, and the difference between earnings or balance-sheet approaches to valuation. These system-wide effects on accounting highlight a design question: why do we have the balance constraint in bookkeeping? Backward-engineering shows 6 axioms that logically lead to double-entry bookkeeping. The balance constraint follows from the existence of a residual account: owner's equity. A class of equivalently powerful record keeping systems is shown to exist. These systems use double-entry bookkeeping without the monetary-unit assumption and can be used to record other outputs of the organization, like societal impact. These systems can be implemented in relational databases, a blockchain, or a different technology all together. The discussion covers links with other mathematical descriptions of bookkeeping and potential avenues for future research in the mathematics of bookkeeping.

Keywords: Axioms for bookkeeping, duality, bookkeeping system design, mathematics of record keeping

JEL Classification: M40, M49, Y80

Suggested Citation:

Renes, Sander, When Debit=Credit, The Balance Constraint in Bookkeeping, Its Causes and Consequences for Accounting (June 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3624726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3624726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Nicolai Andersen
Blockchain technology a game-changer in accounting? , p. 2019 - 2023 Posted: 2016
Rick Antle , Joel S Demski
The controllability principle in responsibility accounting
Accounting Review , p. 700 - 718 Posted: 1988
Andrew Arnold
Blockchain is not a threat to accounting, it's an opportunity , p. 2019 - 2023 Posted: 2018
Anil Arya , John C Fellingham , Jonathan C Glover , Douglas A Schroeder , Gilbert Strang
Inferring transactions from financial statements*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 366 - 385 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,916
RANK
164,283
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies