Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure in a Cournot-Bertrand Duopoly

21 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020

Michael Kopel

University of Graz

Eva Putz

University of Graz

Date Written: June 10, 2020

Abstract

The literature on voluntary disclosure in oligopolies concentrates either on Cournot markets where firms compete in quantities or on Bertrand markets where firms compete in prices. In this paper we study voluntary disclosure of managerial contract information in a Cournot-Bertrand duopoly where one firm sets quantities while the other firm sets prices. Such a hybrid structure frequently captures firm behavior in real-world markets. Accordingly, this paper contributes to our understanding of how firms' choices of strategic market variables influences firms' voluntary disclosure incentives. In a setting where firm owners provide strategic incentives to their managers and can either disclose the details of the managerial compensation contract or keep them secret, we find that the Cournot firm punishes its manager for sales and the Bertrand firm induces more aggressive market choices by rewarding sales. Firms' disclosure choices in equilibrium depend on the level of product substitution. A full disclosure equilibrium where both firms reveal the details of their managerial contract information occurs if the firms' products are sufficiently differentiated. In this case, voluntary disclosure leads to lower consumer welfare, but higher total welfare than if contract information is kept secret by both firms. If product differentiation is low, then we find two partial disclosure equilibria where either the Cournot firm or the Bertrand firm keeps contract information private. In this case, we argue that mandating disclosure can lead to an increase consumer and social welfare, but might decrease firm profits.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, managerial contract information, strategic incentives, Cournot-Bertrand

JEL Classification: D82, L13, L22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kopel, Michael and Putz, Eva, Voluntary Disclosure in a Cournot-Bertrand Duopoly (June 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3625198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3625198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Competitive intelligence and disclosure
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 46 , issue 4 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Delegating disclosure and production choices
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 3 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K H Baik , D Lee
Decisions of duopoly rms on sharing information on their delegation contracts
Review of Industrial Organization. (forthcoming) Posted: 2019
Crossref
A.-C Barthel , E Homann
On the existence and stability of equilibria in N-rm CournotBertrand oligopolies. Theory and Decision 88 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,148
RANK
459,150
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies