Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Sharing in Financial Markets

64 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2020 Last revised: 24 Jan 2023

Itay Goldstein

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School - Finance Department ; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Yan Xiong

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business

Liyan Yang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: June 22, 2021

Abstract

We study information sharing between strategic investors who are informed about asset fundamentals. We demonstrate that a coarsely informed investor optimally chooses to share information if his counterparty investor is well informed. By doing so, the coarsely informed investor invites the other investor to trade against his information, thereby reducing his price impact. Paradoxically, the well informed investor loses from receiving information because of the resulting worsened market liquidity and the more aggressive trading by the coarsely informed investor. Our analysis sheds light on phenomena such as private communications among investors and public information sharing on social media.

Keywords: Information sharing, trading against error, trading profits, asset markets JEL: D82, G14, G18

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Goldstein, Itay and Xiong, Yan and Yang, Liyan, Information Sharing in Financial Markets (June 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632315 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3632315
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is all that talk just noise? the information content of internet stock message boards
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
S Balasubramaniam
Information sharing among strategic traders: The role of disagreement Posted: 2021
R Benabou , G Laroque
Using privileged information to manipulate markets: Insiders, gurus, and credibility
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 107 , issue 3 , p. 921 - 958 Posted: 1992
N Boyarchenko , D O Lucca , L Veldkamp
Taking orders and taking notes: Dealer information sharing in treasury auctions
Journal of Political Economy , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 607 - 645 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,422
RANK
42,319
5 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies