Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance-Based Incentive Contracts under Asymmetric Taxation

44 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2020 Last revised: 11 Mar 2022

Rainer Niemann

University of Graz, Center for Accounting Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Mariana Sailer

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 1, 2021

Abstract

Manager remuneration is usually linked to a performance-based incentive contract. However, finding and implementing the optimal performance-based incentive contract after taxes can be difficult if business forecasts or tax conditions are complex. Bonus and penalty contracts might be easier-to-implement alternatives to optimal contracts and are already used in practice or widely demanded. We analytically examine the impact of symmetric and asymmetric corporate taxation, i.e. taxation without and with loss-offset restrictions, on the principal’s contract choice. We find that symmetric taxation is neutral with respect to contract choice. By contrast, asymmetric taxation can alter the ranking of different performance-based remuneration contracts. Our numerical simulations show that a contract that is optimal under symmetric taxation closely approximates an optimal contract under asymmetric taxation. However, both bonus and penalty contracts can be even better approximations, depending on the parameter setting. Due to their simple determination, bonus and penalty contracts can limit tax planning costs and therefore be reasonable with regard to cost-benefit considerations.

Keywords: performance-based remuneration, penalty contracts, asymmetric taxation, principal-agent model

JEL Classification: D86, H21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Niemann, Rainer and Sailer, Mariana, Performance-Based Incentive Contracts under Asymmetric Taxation (May 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3669875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3669875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
H Amberger , E Eberhartinger , M Kasper
Biases in Tax Decisions Posted: 2021
R Antle , J Demski
The Controllability Principle in Responsibility Accounting
The Account Rev , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 700 - 718 Posted: 1988
M ; Arnold , M Arnold , M Artz
Optimal Remuneration for Board Members in DAX Companies -The Perspective of Investment Professionals
Financial Times Posted: 2014-01
Ashurst
Executive Pay: Government Proposals to Strengthen Malus and Clawback Provisions Posted: 2021-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
980
RANK
588,270
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies