Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Independence and Auditor-Manager Disputes

57 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2020 Last revised: 16 Jan 2023

Sandra Kronenberger

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Sebastian Kronenberger

University of Mannheim; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: January 14, 2023

Abstract

We build a one-period strategic model to analyze the role of audit committee independence in resolving disagreements between management and the auditor regarding financial reporting. Common intuition suggests that the audit committee must be independent from management to be able to support the auditor against the manager’s manipulation attempts. In contrast, we show that (1) to avoid underinvestment, shareholders choose a completely independent audit committee that agrees with the manager and (2) to avoid overinvestment, shareholders choose a partially independent audit committee that agrees with the auditor. The reason is that the ex ante shareholders’ value is affected by the magnitude of the expected cash flows and the managerial manipulation, audit quality, and the committee’s settling incentives. More audit committee dependence might increase the manager’s manipulation, but it also increases audit quality. In sum, our results demonstrate that a completely independent committee, as demanded by regulators, is sometimes not optimal.

Keywords: audit committee, manager manipulation, audit quality, dispute, independence, shareholders' value

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kronenberger, Sandra and Kronenberger, Sebastian and Ye, Minlei, Audit Committee Independence and Auditor-Manager Disputes (January 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3671569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3671569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 519 - 548 Posted: 2003
R Antle
Auditor independence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,992
RANK
179,159
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies