Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure and Investor Inattention: Theory and Evidence

49 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2020 Last revised: 29 Oct 2022

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Keri Peicong Hu

Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong

Yibin Liu

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Date Written: August 13, 2020

Abstract

Investors have a finite capacity to organize all information they receive from financial disclosures. Under rational inattention, we show that investor processing capacity affects the probability of disclosure. Our main result is that the likelihood of disclosure is inverse U-shaped in investor attention: for low levels of attention, more attention facilitates communication and increases disclosure; for high levels of attention, more attention better identifies, and therefore deters, unfavorable voluntary disclosures. We provide empirical evidence that the relationship between investor attention and management forecast follows the predictions of the theory, using institutional ownership as a proxy for investor attention as well as exogenous shocks to fund manager distraction.

Keywords: disclosure, inattention, constraints, communication, voluntary, theory

JEL Classification: D83, G14, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy and Hu, Keri Peicong and Liu, Yibin, Disclosure and Investor Inattention: Theory and Evidence (August 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3673225 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3673225
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review Posted: 2020
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
C Aghamolla , C Corona , R Zheng
No reliance on guidance: counter-signaling in management forecasts
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 245 Posted: 2021
A Ali , S Klasa , O Z Li
Institutional stakeholdings and better-informed traders at earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Carlos Corona , Tae Wook Kim
Contract Disclosure under External Scrutiny
The Accounting Review, forthcoming · 43 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 10 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 301
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,526
RANK
37,654
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies