Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Signaling Long-Term Information Using Short-Term Forecasts

Journal of Accounting and Economics, forthcoming.

68 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2020 Last revised: 24 Jan 2025

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Chongho Kim

Seoul National University

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: September 27, 2020

Abstract

This paper shows theoretically and empirically that the decision to disclose a short-term earnings forecast can reveal managers’ private information about long-term performance. Consistent with the predictions of our model, we find that the decision to disclose a short-term earnings forecast predicts long-term performance for up to three years. The relation strengthens when current period performance is poor, when managers have longer horizons, and when competitive threats are lower. Endogenizing the proprietary costs of disclosure, our analysis suggests that––despite the short horizon––the decision to provide an earnings forecast contains significant information about long-term performance and thus can entail proprietary costs.

Keywords: earnings forecast, proprietary cost, signaling, myopia, firm performance

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G14, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Kim, Chongho and Taylor, Daniel and Zhou, Frank,

Signaling Long-Term Information Using Short-Term Forecasts

(September 27, 2020). Journal of Accounting and Economics, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3700554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3700554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D Bens , V Nagar , M Wong
Real investment implications of employee stock option exercises
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 393 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Bertomeu , P Ma , I Marinovic
How often do managers withhold information?
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 4 , p. 73 - 102 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,135
RANK
159,842
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies