Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mandatory Auditor Rotation on Reported Accruals and Audit Fees

42 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2020 Last revised: 14 May 2025

Harold Lopez

University of Chile

Evelyn Patterson

Indiana University-Kelley School of Business

Reed Smith

Kelley School of Business

Samuel L. Tiras

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

We examine the cooperative interaction between an auditor and client-management required to
produce the audited financial reports and the resulting effects of the negotiation between the
auditor and client-management on reported accruals and audit fees. Specifically, we compare a
Status-Quo (SQ) setting with no mandatory auditor rotation to a Mandatory Auditor Rotation
(MR) setting that restricts the length of the audit. We find that reported accruals are more
conservative in the MR setting than in the SQ setting and increasingly more conservative over
time as rotation nears. For audit fees, we find that they are initially greater in the MR setting,
partially due to greater low-balling in the SQ setting. However, over time, the audit fees in the
MR setting decrease due to a decay in reputation costs that eventually overwhelm the low-balling
effects such that audit fees end up lower in the MR setting than in the SQ setting.

Keywords: Audit Reports, Negotiation

JEL Classification: M42, C78

Suggested Citation:

Lopez, Harold and Patterson, Evelyn and Smith, J. Reed and Tiras, Samuel L., The Impact of Mandatory Auditor Rotation on Reported Accruals and Audit Fees (February 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3707330 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3707330
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
D Acemoglu , M Geitzmann
Auditor independence, incomplete contracts, and the role of auditor liability
European Accounting Review , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 355 - 375 Posted: 1997
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
C Bleibtreu , U Stefani
The effects of mandatory auditor rotation on client importance and audit industry concentration
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2018
M Cameran , A Principe , M Trombetta
Mandatory audit firm rotation and audit quality
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2016
Load more
1 Citations
Minlei Ye
The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
127 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 10 May 2023 · Downloads: 1,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
960
RANK
534,717
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies