Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Editor's Problem

38 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2025 Last revised: 9 Sep 2025

Jeremy Bertomeu

Washington University in St. Louis - John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: October 12, 2020

Abstract

An editor maximizing quality relies on the qualitative recommendation of a reviewer. The reviewer may be biased to accept or reject independently of quality. Using the minimum principle, an averaging rule is found to best reduce the noise introduced by bias: under this rule, an unbiased reviewer accepts when quality is greater than the average quality selected by the editor. For distributions with heavy tails, the probability of acceptance due to bias is bounded away from zero even if almost all reviewers are unbiased. Standards adopted by the editor may be excessive relative to the social optimum. Environments with multiple reviewers, reviewer histories, detailed reviews and competition between editors do not solve the problem and may worsen it. A dynamic peer review demonstrates the inherent fragility of equilibria with informative reviews. The model applies to many settings, including grant review, evidence selection, medical testing, juries and project selection.

Keywords: certification, communication, quality.

JEL Classification: D45, D71, D82

Suggested Citation:

Bertomeu, Jeremy, The Editor's Problem (October 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3710261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3710261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,709
RANK
244,478
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies