Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How CEO-Friendly Should Boards With Limited Attention Be?

53 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2020 Last revised: 24 Nov 2021

Martin Gregor

Charles University, Prague

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: February 13, 2020

Abstract

A revised version of this paper, titled "Board bias, information, and investment efficiency," is available here: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3965147


A CEO who is an empire-builder reports information about an investment opportunity ("project"). Before approving or rejecting the project, a board of directors decides whether and how much additional information to collect, i.e., whether to remain rationally inattentive. We show that the CEO prepares and communicates a report that is just sufficiently precise so as to persuade the board not to learn any additional information and to approve some value-destroying projects (type-I error). The informativeness of the report is increasing in the misalignment of interests between the board and the CEO. Because more informative reports reduce the probability of approval error, the shareholders may optimally assemble a board that is "unfriendly" to the CEO. Our model predicts that (i) board-dependence regulations lead to decrease in corporate investments but an increase in return to shareholders; (ii) the return on investment is lower in companies with busy directors operating in less mature industries; (iii) the conflict of interest between boards and CEOs is either mild or moderately strong and the likelihood of strong conflict is lower in companies with busy directors and companies operating in less mature industries or industries with attractive outside opportunities for directors.

Keywords: Bayesian persuasion, rational inattention, empire building, board of directors, friendly boards, alignment of interests

JEL Classification: D71, D72, D81, D82, D83, G34

Suggested Citation:

Gregor, Martin and Michaeli, Beatrice, How CEO-Friendly Should Boards With Limited Attention Be? (February 13, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3730297 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3730297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
C Aghamola , T Hashimoto
Aggressive Boards and CEO Turnover Posted: 2020
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Commitment issues in budgeting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 273 - 278 Posted: 1997
Report: former Aluminum Mill CEO misled investors, board Posted: 2020-04-27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,087
RANK
299,785
6 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies