Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sequential Reporting Bias

The Accounting Review, Vol. 99, No. 5, 2024

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2020-015

47 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2021 Last revised: 9 Sep 2024

Cyrus Aghamolla

Rice University

Ilan Guttman

Leonard N. Stern School of Business, New York University; New York University - Stern Scholl of business

Evgeny Petrov

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: February 5, 2024

Abstract

Firms with correlated fundamentals often issue reports sequentially, leading to information spillovers. The theoretical literature has investigated multi-firm reporting, but only when firms report simultaneously. We examine the implications of sequential reporting, where firms aim to maximize their market price and can manipulate their reports. Our model demonstrates that the introduction of sequentiality in the presence of information spillovers significantly alters the biasing behavior of firms and the resulting informational environment relative to simultaneous reporting. In particular, a lead firm always manipulates more when reports are issued sequentially than under simultaneous reporting. Interestingly, this occurs because follower firms, who benefit from information spillovers, place less weight on their own private information when issuing a report. This information loss leads the market to place greater weight on the leader's report, which increases the incentive of the lead manager to manipulate her report. Moreover, the information loss from sequentiality leads to less efficient and less volatile prices. Additionally, we find that stronger correlation in firm fundamentals can amplify the lead firm's incentive for manipulation under sequentiality, in contrast to simultaneous reporting. We offer additional results regarding, for example, market response coefficients, and provide a number of empirical implications.

Keywords: disclosure, information spillovers, reporting, manipulation, bias, clustering

JEL Classification: C72, D82, D83, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aghamolla, Cyrus and Guttman, Ilan and Petrov, Evgeny, Sequential Reporting Bias (February 5, 2024). The Accounting Review, Vol. 99, No. 5, 2024, HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2020-015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3741646 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3741646
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
C Aghamolla
Observational Learning, Endogenous Timing, and Information Acquisition Posted: 2016
C Aghamolla , I Guttman
Strategic timing of IPOs and disclosure: A dynamic model of multiple firms
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , p. 27 - 57 Posted: 2021
C Aghamolla , T Hashimoto
Information arrival, delay, and clustering in financial markets with dynamic freeriding
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 138 , p. 27 - 52 Posted: 2020
Managerial myopia, earnings guidance, and investment
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 166 - 195 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
447
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,154
RANK
148,252
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies