Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure of Managerial Contracts in Nonprofit Organizations

35 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2021

Michael Kopel

University of Graz

Marco A. Marini

University of Rome "La Sapienza"

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 30, 2020

Abstract

Nonprofit organizations have been recently mandated to disclose the details of their executives' compensation packages. Contract information is now accessible not only to current and prospective donors, but also to rival nonprofit organizations competing for donations in the fundraising market. Our aim is to investigate the impact of publicly available contract information on fundraising competition of nonprofit organizations. We argue that, although such provision makes contract information available to multiple stakeholders and increases the transparency of the nonprofit sector, it also induces nonprofits to use managerial incentive contracts strategically. In particular, we find that the observability of incentive contracts relaxes existing fundraising competition. This is beneficial in terms of nonprofits' outputs, in particular when these organizations are trapped in a situation of excessive fundraising activities. However, we show that publicly available contract information distorts nonprofits' choice of projects, thus potentially inducing socially inefficient project clustering.

Keywords: Nonprofit Organizations, Mandatory Contract Disclosure, Fundraising Competition, Strategic Incentive Contracts, Project Clustering, Project Specialization

JEL Classification: L31, D64, F35, L13

Suggested Citation:

Kopel, Michael and Marini, Marco A., Mandatory Disclosure of Managerial Contracts in Nonprofit Organizations (November 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3743041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
G Aldashev , M Marini , T Verdier
Brothers in Alms? Coordination between NonproÖts on Markets for Donations
Journal f Public Economics , volume 117 , p. 182 - 200 Posted: 2014
Crossref
G Aldashev , M Marini , T Verdier
Samaritan Bundles: Ine¢cient Clustering in NGO Projects, CEPR Discussion Paper 11931 Posted: 2017
G Aldashev , M Marini , T Verdier
Samarithan Bundles: Fundraising Competition and Ine¢cient Clustering in NGO Projects
The Economic Journal , volume 130 , p. 1541 - 1582 Posted: 2020
Crossref
G Aldashev , E Jaimovich , T Verdier
The Dark Side of Transparency: Mission Variety and Industry Equilibrium in Decentralized Public Good Provision Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
828
RANK
285,293
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies