Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information and Risk Shifting with Asymmetrically Informed Creditors

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2021 Last revised: 10 Nov 2023

Tim Baldenius

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Jing Li

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

This paper explores the effects of public information such as accounting earnings in a competitive lending setting with risk shifting. Debt financing creates incentives for borrowers to take on excessive risks, in particular in bad states of the world. If a privately informed inside creditor bids against outside creditors to extend a loan, public information levels the playing field, which affects the bidding and risk shifting. Nonetheless, a perfect public signal would yield the least efficient outcome: introducing some measurement noise alleviates risk shifting by subjecting outside creditors to the winner's curse, allowing borrowers in bad states cheaper access to loans. However, for pessimistic priors about the borrower, greater public signal precision can alleviate risk shifting, at the margin. We discuss implications for financial reporting regulations along the business cycle and for creditor turnover.

Keywords: Asset substitution, risk shifting, relationship lending, creditor turnover, accounting information

JEL Classification: G20, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baldenius, Tim and Deng, Mingcherng and Li, Jing, Accounting Information and Risk Shifting with Asymmetrically Informed Creditors (October 31, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3750846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3750846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C S Armstrong , W Guay , J Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
A Arya , J Demski , J Glover , P Liang
Quasi-Robust Multiagent Contracts
Management Science , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 752 - 762 Posted: 2009
A N Berger , G F Udell
Relationship Lending and Lines of Credit in Small Firm Finance
Journal of Business , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 351 - 381 Posted: 1995
J Bertomeu , R P Magee
From Low-quality Reporting to Financial Crises: Politics of Disclosure Regulation along the Economic Cycle
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 52 , issue 2-3 , p. 209 - 227 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,045
RANK
327,219
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies