Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information, Disclosure and Expected Utility: Do Investors Really Abhor Uncertainty?

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, 2020

46 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2021

David Johnstone

University of Sydney Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: December 25, 2020

Abstract

Investors are said to "abhor uncertainty", but if there were no uncertainty they could earn only the risk-free rate. A fundamental result in the analytical accounting literature shows that investors buying into a CARA-normal CAPM market pay lower asset prices, earn higher expected returns, and obtain higher expected utility, when the market payoff has higher variance. New investors obtain similar welfare gains from risk under a log/power utility CAPM. These results do not imply that investors "abhor information". To realize investors' ex ante expectations, the subjective probability distributions representing market expectations must be accurate. Greater payoff risk can add to investors' expected utility, but higher ex post (realized) utility comes from better information and more accurate ex ante expectations. An important implication for accounting is that greater disclosure can have the simultaneous effects of (i) exposing more accurately firms' payoff uncertainty and thereby increasing new investors' expected utility, and (ii) improving market estimates of firms' payoff parameters (means, variances, covariances), thereby giving investors a better chance of realizing their expectations. Paradoxically, better information can be valuable to new investors by exposing more accurately the uncertainty in firms' business operations and results. New investors maximizing expected utility typically want both more uncertainty and better information.


Keywords: risk, information, cost of capital, Bayesian, predictive distribution, parameter risk

JEL Classification: G11

Suggested Citation:

Johnstone, David, Accounting Information, Disclosure and Expected Utility: Do Investors Really Abhor Uncertainty? (December 25, 2020). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, 2020 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3755171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3755171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
D Avramov , G Zhou
Bayesian portfolio analysis
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 2 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C B Barry
E¤ects of uncertain and nonstationary parameters upon capital market equilibrium
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 13 , p. 419 - 433 Posted: 1978
Crossref
V S Bawa , S J Brown , R W Klein
Estimation Risk and Optimal Portfolio Choice Posted: 1979
J Bertomeu
Discussion of earnings manipulation and the cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 475 - 493 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
797
RANK
484,103
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies