Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
News Management, Moral Hazard, and the Properties of Earnings, Prices, and Compensation

Forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting and Economics

51 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 7 Oct 2025

Jonathan Bonham

University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: January 24, 2021

Abstract

I study theoretical properties of earnings, prices, and compensation by developing a dual moral hazard model in which a productive manager can selectively include verifiable information in an accounting report. When the cost of information is moderate, the solution exhibits several empirically-descriptive properties: market values exceed book values, the optimal earnings-based contract has a floor and a ceiling, the accounting system resembles historical cost with big bath write-downs but not write-ups, the Basu (1997) relation is conservative, the earnings distribution has a discontinuity, and the earnings-returns relation is S-shaped. These properties do not jointly emerge when the cost of information is low (high), in which case the accounting system resembles fair value (immediate expensing). I also show that the optimal earnings-based contract can always be replicated by a monotone price-based contract that may be implemented via performance shares.

Keywords: accounting; communication; contracting; agency theory; compensation; moral hazard

JEL Classification: D82, D83, D86, M12, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Bonham, Jonathan, News Management, Moral Hazard, and the Properties of Earnings, Prices, and Compensation (January 24, 2021). Forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3772275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3772275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Rick Antle , Gary D Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Oscar Arnaiz , Vicente Gutierrez , Salas-Fumás
Performance standards and optimal incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 152 Posted: 2008
Anil Arya , Jonathan Glover , Brian Mittendorf
Aligning incentives by capping bonuses
Essays in Accounting Theory in Honour of Joel S. Demski , p. 169 - 182 Posted: 2007
Sudipta Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
937
RANK
362,694
3 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies