Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of ‘Why and How’ Audit Firms Choose to Specialize

Forthcoming European Accounting Review

57 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Esther Gal‐Or

University of Pittsburgh

Ronen Gal-Or

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 9, 2021

Abstract

We examine analytically the strategic path auditors take towards becoming industry specialists in terms of their investments in the acquisition of industry specific knowledge and their pricing behavior. We identify characteristics of the competitive environment that provide incentives to improve audit quality as accounting firms strive to achieve industry specialization. These characteristics include the extent of uniqueness of the accounting knowledge relevant to the industry and the extent to which it is difficult for auditors to differentiate themselves from competitors by using mechanisms other than industry specialization. We argue that both the initial investments in improving quality and the experience gained by attracting a bigger group of clients play a role in achieving specialization. Serving more clients fosters learning and cultivates enhanced industry expertise. In order to cultivate such learning, our model predicts that the auditor lowers his fees in early stages of his journey to achieving specialization in order to attract a larger group of new clients. In contrast to prior studies, our analysis examines factors influencing the supply of rather than the demand for industry specialization.

Keywords: Audit Markets, Audit Quality, Industry Specialization, Industry Uniqueness, Price Competition, Analytical Model

JEL Classification: D43, L11, L13, L15, L21, L84, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Gal‐Or, Esther and Gal-Or, Ronen, A Theory of ‘Why and How’ Audit Firms Choose to Specialize (February 9, 2021). Forthcoming European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3782925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Minlei Ye
The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
127 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 10 May 2023 · Downloads: 1,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
681
RANK
413,842
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies