Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Monitoring and Advising in Dynamic Agency

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Svetlana Katolnik

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Sandra Kronenberger

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Jens Robert Schöndube

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Date Written: February 15, 2021

Abstract

Intuition suggests that shareholders benefit from active boards. We present a model to show that if contract renegotiation is possible, then an active board might not always be desirable from the shareholders' perspective. This happens because low board activity may partially offset the distortion in the manager's incentives caused by the renegotiation option. While the value of low board activity stems from the board's weak monitoring, a strong measurement effect of the board's advising in the manager's performance measures is necessary to implement it. In this case, a sufficiently independent board motivates a low level of board activity.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Board monitoring, Board advising, Board composition, Managerial incentives

JEL Classification: D81, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Katolnik, Svetlana and Kronenberger, Sandra and Schöndube, Jens Robert, Board Monitoring and Advising in Dynamic Agency (February 15, 2021). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
RANK
622,944
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies