Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Expertise and Development of New Products

20 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2021

Yasuhiro Mazda

Tohoku University - Graduate School of Economics & Management

Date Written: April 28, 2021

Abstract

This paper attempts to characterize how information asymmetry on manager's capability affects the development of new products when the return from a project for new products depends on the type of the manager. In such circumstances, I establish the foundation for the occurrence of distortion in project size and show how the characteristics of manager's types affect the firms development activities of new products. I also show the effects of standardization of management expertise on such projects.

Keywords: capital budgeting, management expertise, standardization

JEL Classification: M21, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mazda, Yasuhiro, Management Expertise and Development of New Products (April 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3835815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3835815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Offering Stock Options to Gauge Managerial Talent
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 189 - 210 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Dutta
Capital Budgeting and Managerial Compensation: Incentive and Retention Effects
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 71 - 93 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Dutta , Q Fan
Hurdle Rates and Project Development Efforts
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 405 - 432 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Incentives for Innovation and Centralized versus Delegated Capital Budgeting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 592 - 611 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
504
RANK
724,439
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies