Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Income Statement Channel of Monetary Policy

52 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2021 Last revised: 19 Dec 2023

Oliver Binz

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Peter R. Joos

INSEAD

Date Written: January 18, 2022

Abstract

We study the dynamic transmission of monetary policy shocks into corporate profitability. We find an initial negative association between monetary policy shocks and corporate revenues and expenses. The revenue response is consistent with a consumer substitution effect, while the expense response is consistent with a firm cost of capital effect. The expense effect exceeds the revenue effect, yielding a positive relation between the shocks and profitability in the short run. Both effects concentrate in cash revenues and expenses and vary predictably with firms’ business models and consumers’ and firms’ financial constraints. The expense effect is pronounced for investment outlays that must be expensed rather than capitalized, suggesting that accounting treatment influences firms’ reactions to monetary policy shocks.

Keywords: Monetary Policy, Consumption, Investment, Revenues, Expenses, Earnings

JEL Classification: E22, E52, M41

Suggested Citation:

Binz, Oliver and Kubic, Matthew and Joos, Peter R., The Income Statement Channel of Monetary Policy (January 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3835653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3835653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
H Ai , R Bansal
Risk preferences and the macroeconomic announcement premium
Econometrica , volume 86 , issue 4 , p. 1383 - 1430 Posted: 2018
M Almgren , J.-E Gallegos , J Kramer , R Lima
Monetary policy and liquidity constraints: Evidence from the euro area
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 309 - 340 Posted: 2022
C Altavilla , M Boucinha , J.-L Peydró
Monetary policy and bank profitability in a low interest rate environment
Economic Policy , volume 33 , issue 96 , p. 531 - 586 Posted: 2018
G.-M Angeletos , C Hellwig , A Pavan
Signaling in a global game: Coordination and policy traps
Journal of Political Economy , volume 114 , issue 3 , p. 452 - 484 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
691
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,716
RANK
86,048
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies