Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modeling Investment Behavior and Risk Propagation in Financial Networks

16 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

John R. Birge

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: May 16, 2021

Abstract

Connections among institutions in the global financial network create the potential for risk to propagate and for failures to cascade as successive institutions fail. As conditions, such as capital requirements change, institutions may modify their behavior in ways that can fundamentally change the relationships among institutions and lead to substantially different failure dynamics. Increasing capital requirements can, for example, paradoxically increase the potential for failures to propagate by altering the intensity of relationships and risk exposures. Predicting such outcomes and directing policies to reduce overall systemic risk requires modeling of institutional responses to environmental conditions. This paper discusses an approach based on inverse optimization of relationship decisions subject to capital constraints. A model of cascading failures and data from national debt cross-holdings illustrate the approach and demonstrate how changing capital requirements may lead to distinct differences in the sequences and extent of failures.

Keywords: systematic risk, structural estimation, capital requirements

JEL Classification: C61, F38, G21,G28,

Suggested Citation:

Birge, John R., Modeling Investment Behavior and Risk Propagation in Financial Networks (May 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3847443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3847443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
V V Acharya
A theory of systemic risk and design of prudential bank regulation
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 5 , issue 3 Posted: 2009
Crossref
V V Acharya , I Hassan , A Saunder
Should banks be diversied? evidence from individual bank loan portfolios
Journal of Business , volume 79 Posted: 2006
Crossref
F Allen , E Carletti , F Marquez
Deposits and bank capital structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 118 Posted: 2015
Crossref
F Allen , D Gale
Financial contagion
Journal of Political Economy , volume 108 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,787
RANK
215,929
4 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies