Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Leverage Effect of Bank Disclosures

51 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2021 Last revised: 27 May 2025

Philipp Koenig

Deutsche Bundesbank

Christian Laux

Vienna University of Economics and Business; Vienna Graduate School of Finance (VGSF); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

David Pothier

University of Vienna - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 14, 2021

Abstract

We study how disclosures affect banks' leverage and risk.  Banks screen borrowers and originate loans, partially financed using insured deposits.  The possibility to sell loans before they mature incentivizes banks to lever up using uninsured short-term debt to dilute insured deposits. If markets are opaque, good loans trade at a discount, which limits banks' use of short-term debt.  If markets are transparent, prices compound information contained in disclosures, which leads banks to issue more short-term debt to further dilute insured deposits.  We identify conditions under which the increase in leverage caused by disclosures reduces banks' screening incentives. Our analysis has important implications for prudential regulation, including minimum regulatory capital requirements and leverage-based deposit insurance premiums.

Keywords: Bank disclosures, market discipline, bank leverage, bank risk-taking, deposit insurance

JEL Classification: D80, G21, G14

Suggested Citation:

Koenig, Philipp and Laux, Christian and Pothier, David, The Leverage Effect of Bank Disclosures (September 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3923764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3923764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
A Admati , M Hellwig
The Bankers' New Clothes: What's Wrong with Banking and What to Do about It Posted: 2014
J Bertomeu , L Mahieux , H Sapra
Interplay between accounting and prudential regulation
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 53 Posted: 2023
Bis
Enhancing transparency: Public disclosure and supervisory information that promote safety and soundness in banking systems Posted: 1998
D S Bizer , P M Demarzo
Sequential banking
Journal of Political Economy , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,507
RANK
159,379
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies