Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theoretical Framework for ESG Reporting to Investors

46 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021 Last revised: 2 Dec 2021

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Mirko Stanislav Heinle

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Irina Luneva

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: September 28, 2021

Abstract

We provide a theoretical framework for reporting of firms' environmental, social, and governance (ESG) activities to investors. In our model, investors receive an ESG report and use it to price the firm. Because the manager is interested in the firm's price, disclosing an ESG report provides effort and greenwashing incentives. We analyze the impact of different reporting characteristics on the firm's price, cash flows, and ESG performance. In particular, we investigate the consequences of whether the report captures ESG inputs or outcomes, how the report aggregates different ESG dimensions, and the manager's tradeoffs regarding ESG efforts and reporting bias. We find that, for example, an ESG report that weights efforts by their impact on the firm's cash flows tends to have a stronger price reaction than an ESG report that focuses on the ESG impact per se. ESG reports aligned with investors' aggregate preferences provide stronger incentives and lead to higher cash flows and ESG than reports that focus on either ESG or cash flow effects individually. Additionally, in the presence of informative financial reporting, ESG reports that focus on ESG impacts lead to the same cash flow and better ESG results than reports focusing on cash flow impacts alone.

Keywords: ESG reporting, ESG valuation, real effects

JEL Classification: G11, G23, G34, M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Friedman, Henry L. and Heinle, Mirko Stanislav and Luneva, Irina, A Theoretical Framework for ESG Reporting to Investors (September 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3932689 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3932689
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use esg information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
B M Barber , A Morse , A Yasuda
Impact investing
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 139 , issue 1 , p. 162 - 185 Posted: 2021
S Basu , J Vitanza , W Wang , X R Zhu
Walking the walk? bank esg disclosures and home mortgage lending Posted: 2021
R Bauer , T Ruof , P Smeets
Get Real! Individuals Prefer More Sustainable Investments
Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2021
Load more
6 Citations
Tong Lu , Lijun Ruan , Yanyan Wang , Lisheng Yu
Real effects of greenhouse gas disclosures
China Journal of Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 100360 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Thabo J. Gopane
Policy implications of ESG-moderated credit risk on bank profitability
Green Finance , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 406 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Mark Davidson , Samuel Cooper
Assessing climate risk bond disclosure in ten at-risk US municipalities
Finance and Space , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 42 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Rachna Chand , Manjit Kour
Building Business Knowledge for Complex Modern Business Environments
, p. 121 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,483
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,273
RANK
5,044
6 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies