Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Endogenizing Discretion in Disclosures

Management Science, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2021 Last revised: 25 Jul 2022

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: June 15, 2022

Abstract

A firm’s publicly available information reflects ex ante committed information releases and ex post discretionary disclosures. In a setting wherein a firm’s CEO is concerned with stock market valuation and confrontations with the employee union, this paper endogenizes when she retains ex post disclosure discretion and when she curtails her discretion, opting instead to ex ante committing to not gathering information or publicly disclosing information. The underlying economic forces entail a tradeoff between the time-inconsistency problem (the CEO’s ex post preferences can diverge from her ex ante goals) and how silence (absence of information) under the ex ante and ex post paths is valued differentially by the union. In effect, silence under different systems “speaks” differently, and this influences both the labor union’s incentives to engage in bargaining with the firm and the stock market’s pricing of the firm’s equity.

Keywords: Commitment, Discretionary disclosures, Information system design, Labor union

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Ramanan, Ram, Endogenizing Discretion in Disclosures (June 15, 2022). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3935991 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3935991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Antle , G D Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
R Antle , J Fellingham
Information rents and preferences among information systems in a model of resource allocation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 41 - 58 Posted: 1995
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, product market competition, and strategic disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital budgeting, the holdup problem, and information system design
Management Science , volume 46 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
742
RANK
386,825
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies