Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wake-up call from the past investments

65 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2021 Last revised: 16 Dec 2022

Seong Jin Ahn

College of Business, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Hojun Seo

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Date Written: October 26, 2021

Abstract

we examine whether the re-evaluation of past investments spurs shareholder monitoring activities and innovation for long-term growth. To test this hypothesis, we exploit a regulation that requires firms to perform periodic re-evaluations of past investments, resulting in changes in the impairment likelihood of past investments. We find increased R&D investments but decreased over-investments in capital expenditures and acquisitions when the likelihood of impairments increases. Furthermore, we find an increase in shareholder voting against management and an increased likelihood of forced CEO turnover when the likelihood of impairments increases. Further analyses reveal that the increased likelihood of impairments leads to more patent filings and greater patent values, suggesting that the changes in investments and growth strategies due to the re-evaluation of past investments enhance long-term growth.

Keywords: Past investments; Impairments; Monitoring; R&D; Investment decisions; Innovation; Regression kink design

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G34, O31, O32

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Seong Jin and Lin, Yupeng and Seo, Hojun, Wake-up call from the past investments (October 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3950063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
S Arif , J D Kepler , J Schroeder , D Taylor
Audit process, private information, and insider trading
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 1125 - 1156 Posted: 2022
A Arora , S Belenzon , L A Rios
Make, buy, organize: The interplay between research, external knowledge, and firm structure
Strategic Management Journal , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 317 - 337 Posted: 2014
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 1 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
M Alciatore , C C Dee , P Easton , N Spear
Asset write-downs: A decade of research
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 17 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,452
RANK
275,154
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies