Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Positive Theory of Accounting-Based Management by Exception

37 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2021

Mark Penno

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 28, 2021

Abstract

While traditional budget and control systems operate on the principle of management by exception (MBE), the planning and control dichotomy is not well-justified by normative theories. Normative theories typically presume omniscient rationality, which means that unless MBE introduces new information into the control phase, budgeting and communicating MBE thresholds would have no value and ‘tight target’ would become a vacuous term. Instead, I present a positive analysis of MBE, where MBE thresholds alleviate the investigator’s burden of retrieving the details from the planning phase while preserving enough information to maintain effective control. I identify a threshold-based MBE algorithm which approximates the performance of the normative policy, suggesting that simple static threshold-based communication – in general –can be effective and should not be ignored by accounting theory. An equivalence between normative theory and perfectly flexible budgets helps me to explain the popularity of static budgets.

Keywords: Positive theory; Management by exception, Planning and control dichotomy, Tight thresholds, Flexible budgeting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Penno, Mark C., A Positive Theory of Accounting-Based Management by Exception (October 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3952050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3952050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Can Akdeniz
Management By Exception Explained Posted: 2015
Robert Anthony
Cost Concepts for Control
The Accounting Review , volume 32 , p. 229 - 234 Posted: 1957
Markus Arnold , Martin Artz
Target Difficulty, Target Flexibility, and Firm Performance: Evidence from Business Units' Targets, Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 40 , p. 61 - 77 Posted: 2015
Stanley Baiman , Joel Demski
Variance Analysis Procedures as Motivational Devices , volume 26 , p. 840 - 848 Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
905
RANK
388,737
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies