Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting, Auditing, Analyst Scrutiny, and Investment Efficiency

The Accounting Review

49 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Derek Chan

University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Nanqin Liu

University of Macau

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 5, 2021

Abstract

This paper presents an economic framework to study strategic interactions along the analyst-auditor-owner disciplinary chain, in which the auditor examines the financial reports prepared by the owner, and the analyst uncovers financial misreporting as well as audit failure. We find that although analyst scrutiny ex post detects misreporting, it ex ante aggravates the owner's misreporting behavior and further impairs financial statement reliability if the legal penalties for the auditor and the owner are small. We also show how the effects of a regulation depend on its target's disciplinarian(s). Specifically, (i) although enhancing the auditor's legal liability always increases audit quality and financial statement reliability, it decreases investment efficiency if and only if the analyst is highly independent; and (ii) increasing the owner's misreporting penalty decreases investment efficiency if and only if either of (but not both) the regulations on the auditor and the analyst is strict.

Keywords: disciplinary chain, financial gatekeepers, analyst independence, auditors' legal liability, financial misreporting cost

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Derek K. and Liu, Nanqin, Financial Reporting, Auditing, Analyst Scrutiny, and Investment Efficiency (November 5, 2021). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3961819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , Robin , A
The e¤ect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The …nancial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
G C Biddle , G Hilary
Accounting quality and …rm-level capital investment
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 5 , p. 963 - 982 Posted: 2006
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How does …nancial reporting quality relate to investment e¢ ciency
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2-3 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,101
RANK
68,948
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies