Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Role do Boards Play in Companies with Visionary CEOs?

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022 Last revised: 12 Oct 2023

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 9, 2023

Abstract

Visionary CEOs have strong beliefs about the right course of action for their firms. How should a board of directors that does not necessarily share the visionary CEO's confidence advise and monitor the CEO? We consider a model in which the board can acquire costly information about the firm's optimal strategic direction. The board not only advises the CEO on strategy, but also must approve it, and the CEO exerts effort to implement the strategy. We find that the board gathers less information when the CEO believes more strongly in his vision. Further, depending on the strength of the CEO's belief bias, the board either plays an advisory role, a monitoring role, or a rubberstamping role. The model predicts that in firms that are led by highly visionary CEOs, boards are passive in that they acquire little information and rubberstamp the visionary's proposal. Nevertheless, shareholders prefer the visionary over an unbiased manager in industries in which obtaining information about the correct course of action is difficult and costly.

Keywords: Visionary CEOs, Corporate boards, Heterogeneous beliefs, Board advising and monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Xu and Laux, Volker, What Role do Boards Play in Companies with Visionary CEOs? (October 9, 2023). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3974228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3974228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial Overcon…dence and Accounting Conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
T Baldenius , N Melumad , X Meng
Board Composition and CEO Power
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 112 , p. 53 - 68 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
380
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,674
RANK
178,651
6 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies