Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory vs. Voluntary ESG Disclosure, Efficiency, and Real Effects

Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 22-41

43 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021 Last revised: 11 Dec 2024

Cyrus Aghamolla

Rice University

Byeong-Je An

San Diego State University - Finance Department

Date Written: December 10, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we examine the equilibrium effects of ESG quality disclosure in both voluntary and mandatory regimes. A firm manager makes a private investment decision in an environmentally friendly or unfriendly project that affects future cash flows and the social externalities produced by the firm. We build from Shin (2003) and allow an informed manager to make potentially disparate disclosure decisions on multiple interdependent outcomes---future financial performance and ESG quality. We find that mandating ESG quality disclosure results in over-investment in the sustainable technology. That is, the manager often implements sustainable investment even though this is overall less preferred by shareholders. Moreover, a voluntary disclosure regime can be more efficient for investment than a mandatory regime, from the perspective of shareholders. The results also show that mandating ESG disclosure leads to a greater prevalence of sustainable investing. The results provide insights that can be relevant for public policy considerations regarding mandatory ESG disclosure as well as implications that can help to guide empirical research.

Keywords: ESG disclosure, voluntary disclosure, mandatory disclosure, ESG score, project choice, investment, real effects, efficiency.

JEL Classification: C72, D82, G11, G23, M41.

Suggested Citation:

Aghamolla, Cyrus and An, Byeong-Je, Mandatory vs. Voluntary ESG Disclosure, Efficiency, and Real Effects (December 10, 2024). Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 22-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3975948 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3975948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Avramov , S Cheng , A Lioui , A Tarelli
Sustainable investing with ESG rating uncertainty Posted: 2021
M Baker , D Bergstresser , G Serafeim , J Wurgler
Financing the response to climate change: The pricing and ownership of US green bonds Posted: 2018
S D Baker , B Hollifield , E Osambela
Asset prices and portfolios with externalities Posted: 2020
R Bauer , T Ruof , P Smeets
Get real! Individuals prefer more sustainable investments
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , p. 3976 - 4043 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,991
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,936
RANK
9,693
14 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies