Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Predecision Information and the Pay-Performance Relation

52 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2021 Last revised: 8 Feb 2022

Robert F. Göx

University of Zurich - Managerial Accounting; University of Zurich - Faculty of Economics, Business Administration and Information Technology

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: December 13, 2021

Abstract

We study how the precision of managers’ private post-contract predecision information affects the pay-performance relation. Taking into account that the information environment in decentralized firms is often endogenously determined (e.g., by investment in internal accounting systems, hiring of consultants, or learning), we find that firms jointly choosing information precision and incentives may optimally tie executive pay closer to firm performance as agency problems become more pronounced. Specifically, the trade-off between information precision and incentives can render it optimal to provide agents with stronger incentives if agents are less productive, performance measures are less congruent or more susceptible to manipulation, or if agents are more risk averse. Considering that empirical studies frequently take the pay-performance sensitivity (PPS) as a measure of the efficiency of real world compensation arrangements, our results provide relevant insights for empirical research studying the determinants of the relation between executive pay and firm performance.

Keywords: incentive contracting, predecision information, information design, pay-performance relation

Suggested Citation:

Goex, Robert F. and Michaeli, Beatrice, Private Predecision Information and the Pay-Performance Relation (December 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3984383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3984383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the revelation principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
S Baiman , J Evans
Predecision Information and participative management control signals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1983
S Baiman , K Sivaramakrishnan
The value of private predecision information in a principal-agent context
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 747 - 766 Posted: 1991
G P Baker
Incentive contracts and performance measurement
Journal of Political Economy , volume 100 , issue 3 , p. 598 - 614 Posted: 1992
Load more
1 Citations
Gaoqing Zhang , Ronghuo Zheng
Optimal Reporting Systems in Bank Runs
Forthcoming at The Accounting Review · 47 Pages · Posted: 24 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 31 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 319
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,051
RANK
261,368
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies