Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-favored Stock Donations by Corporate Insiders and Consequences for Equity Markets

Management Science, forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022 Last revised: 25 Jul 2022

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: July 23, 2022

Abstract

Though corporate insiders face substantial restrictions on stock sales, securing tax deductions
through charitable donations of stock is viewed as an attractive alternative. Recent press coverage
and growing empirical evidence confirm that insider donations occur frequently and often precede
stock price drops. Securities regulators have also taken note, with a recent push for new rules to
require rapid disclosure as with insider trades. This paper develops a model of informed stock
trading when disposal of stock by insiders takes the form of tax-favored charitable donations rather
than direct trading. We demonstrate that charitable gifts by insiders can reflect nonpublic
information about firm value, and that they do so in a manner that promotes greater market
efficiency. Relative to informed trading, insider donations yield greater market liquidity, more
efficient equity prices, and superior investor protection. The results suggest that while insider
donations deserve scrutiny, they are not equivalent to insider trades. The results also provide a
general framework to examine implications of insider donations for tax policy governing
philanthropic behavior.

Keywords: Insider trading, Market efficiency, Philanthropy, Tax policy

JEL Classification: C72

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Mittendorf, Brian and Ramanan, Ram, Tax-favored Stock Donations by Corporate Insiders and Consequences for Equity Markets (July 23, 2022). Management Science, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4003698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4003698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Leslie Albrecht
You Should Publicly Announce Where the Money is Going to
Elon Musk Gave $5.7 Billion in Tesla Stock to Charity, but the Beneficiaries May Forever Remain a Secret. Marketwatch Posted: 2022-02-21
James Andreoni , Ray Madoff
Impact of the Rise of Commercial Donor-Advised Funds on the Charitable Landscape
A Report from the Boston College Law School Forum on Philanthropy and the Public Good Posted: 1991
Anil Arya , Ram Nv Ramanan
Disclosure to Regulate Learning in Product Markets from the Stock Market
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2022
S Avci , Cindy Burcu , H Schipani , Nejat Seyhun
Manipulative Games of Gifts by Corporate Executives
University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1174 Posted: 2016
Load more
1 Citations
Hao Xue
ESG Disclosure, Market Forces, and Investment Efficiency
The Accounting Review, 2025[<a href="https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2023-0707" rel="nofollow">10.2308/TAR-2023-0707</a>] · 52 Pages · Posted: 1 Feb 2023 · Last revised: 21 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 1,369
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,885
RANK
308,851
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies