Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Enforcement, Internal Control Disclosures and Audit Quality

40 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Kyungha Lee

Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Rahul Menon

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Date Written: February 2, 2022

Abstract

This paper studies how regulatory enforcement and penalties affect audit transparency and audit quality. In our model, the auditor first tests a firm's internal control over financial reporting before auditing the financial report, and is required to provide an opinion on both the firm's internal control and financial report. In this setting, we examine how different types of enforcement affect the auditor's effort choices, reporting strategy, and ultimately audit quality. We find that regulatory penalties can have a non-monotonic effect on audit quality, and that policies aimed at increasing audit transparency can inadvertently decrease audit quality. We also show the importance of balancing randomized and targeted inspections of audits.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Audit transparency, Enforcement, SOX 404

JEL Classification: M41,M42

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Kyungha (Kari) and Menon, Rahul, Regulatory Enforcement, Internal Control Disclosures and Audit Quality (February 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4025251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4025251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
903
RANK
271,899
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies