Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Timeliness, Accuracy, and Relevance in Dynamic Incentive Contracts

57 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2022

Peter O. Christensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance

Gerald A. Feltham

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Florin Sabac

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: November 26, 2021

Abstract

The present study began with Jerry Feltham’s invitation to present at the Stanford Summer Camp in August 2003. As we were variously involved in related work on performance measurement and dynamic incentives, Peter, Jerry, Christian, and Florin teamed up and the result was Christensen, Feltham, Hofmann, and Sabac (2003). The present study is an update of the unpublished Stanford Summer Camp version dated July 3, 2003. The 2003 manuscript was a team effort under Jerry’s guidance, the current update was completed by Christian and Florin.

Keywords: Dynamic incentives, Performance measure precision, contract renegotiation

JEL Classification: M40, M52, D86

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Peter Ove and Feltham, Gerald A. and Hofmann, Christian and Sabac, Florin, Timeliness, Accuracy, and Relevance in Dynamic Incentive Contracts (November 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4028836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4028836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
706
RANK
386,825
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies