Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Short-Termism, Corporate Control and Voluntary Disclosure

Forthcoming at Management Science, https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2022.4357

49 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2022 Last revised: 1 Apr 2022

Xue Jia

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Rahul Menon

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Date Written: September 23, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines how a manager uses voluntary disclosure to influence corporate control by a short-term shareholder. Since a short-term shareholder intervenes excessively, the manager's disclosure strategy is determined by the trade-off between excessive and insufficient intervention. In equilibrium, when shareholder short-termism is not too high, the manager discloses both good and bad news, and withholds intermediate news. Alternatively, when shareholder short-termism is high, the manager only discloses good news and withholds bad news. In both equilibria, withholding information is value-enhancing for the nondisclosing firms. We also show that the likelihood of disclosure weakly decreases as the shareholder is more short-term oriented. Moreover, nondisclosing firms are more likely to face shareholder intervention than disclosing firms.

Keywords: Active shareholder, shareholder short-termism, Voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Xue and Menon, Rahul, Shareholder Short-Termism, Corporate Control and Voluntary Disclosure (September 23, 2021). Forthcoming at Management Science, https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2022.4357 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
882
RANK
263,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies