Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banks' versus regulators' disclosure choices in the presence of adverse selection and runs

60 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022 Last revised: 8 Oct 2025

Carlos Corona

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Lucas Mahieux

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: October 01, 2025

Abstract

The transparency of banks regarding the quality of their risky assets is a critical policy issue. This paper develops a theory of disclosure in which banks face both adverse selection and bank-run risk. While greater transparency can alleviate adverse selection and facilitate bank investment, it may also trigger runs. When deposits are insured and bank-run risk is absent, banks and regulators adopt similar disclosure policies to mitigate adverse selection and support lending. However, when deposits are uninsured, runs can be either socially efficient or inefficient, depending on banks’ investment choices. At high deposit rates, banks tend to disclose more than is socially optimal to secure cheaper financing, even at the cost of triggering inefficient runs. At lower deposit rates, banks tend to disclose less than is socially optimal to preserve investment opportunities, even when this enables value-destroying lending. In such cases, the regulator prefers greater transparency to induce efficient runs that prevent socially harmful investments driven by asset substitution. The model delivers clear policy implications and generates several testable empirical predictions.

Keywords: Adverse selection, Banks, Disclosure, Investment efficiency, Runs, Transparency, Asset substitution

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Corona, Carlos and Mahieux, Lucas, Banks' versus regulators' disclosure choices in the presence of adverse selection and runs (October 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4034747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4034747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
V V Acharya , P Schnabl , G Suarez
Securitization without risk transfer
Journal of Financial economics , volume 107 , issue 3 , p. 515 - 536 Posted: 2013
G A Akerlof
The market for lemons: Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
A Arya , J C Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
Accounting Review , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,296
RANK
311,489
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies