Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing with a Chance of Whistleblowing

41 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2022 Last revised: 30 Dec 2024

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Chao Tang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: Februrary 6, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of promoting whistleblowing on audit quality and the efficiency of detecting misstatements. On the one hand, whistleblowing alerts the enforcer to the possibility of a misstatement and intensifies the regulatory effort, thereby incentivizing the auditor to improve audit quality. On the other hand, promoting whistleblowing reduces the enforcer's investigative effort when there is no whistleblowing allegation, which, in turn, dampens the auditor's incentive to enhance audit quality. We demonstrate that under certain conditions, encouraging more whistleblowing can impair audit quality and reduce detection efficiency. We also examine the socially optimal whistleblowing program, and our analysis implies that the optimal whistleblowing intensity is increasing in the investment cost and the quality of the whistleblower's information.

Keywords: whistleblowing programs, audit quality, enforcer

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Tang, Chao and Ye, Minlei, Auditing with a Chance of Whistleblowing (Februrary 6, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4052083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4052083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover
Teams, repeated tasks, and implicity incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 30 Posted: 1997
P G Berger , H Lee
Did the Dodd-Frank whistleblower provision deter accounting fraud
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1337 - 1378 Posted: 2022
J Brendel , J Ryans
Responding to activist short sellers: Allegations, …rm responses, and outcomes
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 487 - 528 Posted: 2021
A C Call , G S Martin , N Y Sharp , J H Wilde
Whistleblowers and outcomes of …nancial misrepresentation enforcement actions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 171 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,325
RANK
147,101
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies