Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Mandatory Disclosure on Investment Efficiency

27 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022

Toru Ishikawa

University of the Ryukyus Faculty of Global and Regional Studies

Date Written: March 28, 2022

Abstract

Recent disclosure regulations require firms to disclose more information. Evaluating disclosure regulations requires researchers to account for real decisions and the uncertainty of future earnings. Thus, firms have an incentive to obtain information to make more appropriate real decisions. In particular, information from analysts is a direct source of information for firms. However, when the information firms disclose affects the information analysts provide, disclosure regulations may change the information that firms obtain from analysts. This study examines the effects of disclosure regulations on the information firms disclose and on investment efficiency when firms have incentives to obtain information from analysts. The results indicate that disclosure regulations may result in less accurate information disclosure and lower investment efficiency.

Keywords: mandatory disclosure, investment efficiency, analyst report

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G38, K22, M4

Suggested Citation:

Ishikawa, Toru, The Effects of Mandatory Disclosure on Investment Efficiency (March 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4068082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Jihun Bae , Gary C Biddle , Chul W Park
Managerial Learning from Analyst Feedback to Voluntary Capex Guidance, Investment Efficiency, and Firm Performance
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 583 - 607 Posted: 2022
Jeremy Bertomeu , Igor Vaysman , Wenjie Xue
Voluntary versus mandatory disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 658 - 692 Posted: 2021
Jonathan Brogaard , Wei Shi , Haifeng Wei , You
Do Analysts Improve Investment Efficiency? Posted: 2021
Qi Chen , Itay Goldstein , Wei Jiang
Price informativeness and investment sensitivity to stock price
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 619 - 650 Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
R. P. Bulyga , M. V. Melnik , I. V. Safonova , V. B. Gisin
A Model of ESG-Transparency Index in Corporate Reporting
MGIMO Review of International Relations , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 56 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
745
RANK
432,018
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies