Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Subjectivity on Manager and Auditor Reporting

Kyungha (Kari) Lee, Rahul Menon; The Effects of Subjectivity on Manager and Auditor Reporting. The Accounting Review 1 September 2019; 94 (5): 273–295. doi: https://doi.org/10.2308/accr-52316

Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Kyungha Lee

Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Rahul Menon

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Date Written: September 2019

Abstract

This paper develops an economic model of how subjectivity in accounting estimates affects a
manager’s reporting behavior and auditors’ subsequent information aggregation decision. In our model, the auditor receives a potentially manipulated report from the manager and uses an additional, albeit less precise, estimate to verify the report. We show, perhaps surprisingly, that as subjectivity increases, the auditor puts more weight on the manager’s report, but the manager manipulates her report less. The overall effect of subjectivity on audit precision and the expected bias in the audited report is nonmonotonic. We further analyze how subjectivity affects the manager’s investment behavior and optimal compensation structure. By introducing the notion of subjectivity, our model provides novel insight and empirical implications on managerial reporting behavior, audit quality, and investment efficiency when involving accounting estimates.

Keywords: subjectivity, accounting estimates, specialists, auditing estimates, earnings manipulation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Kyungha (Kari) and Menon, Rahul, The Effects of Subjectivity on Manager and Auditor Reporting (September 2019). Kyungha (Kari) Lee, Rahul Menon; The Effects of Subjectivity on Manager and Auditor Reporting. The Accounting Review 1 September 2019; 94 (5): 273–295. doi: https://doi.org/10.2308/accr-52316, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068875
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies