Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Severance Pay, Voluntary Disclosures, and Managerial Turnover

51 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022 Last revised: 28 Mar 2023

Rahul Menon

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Date Written: March 30, 2022

Abstract

How does the threat of being replaced influence a manager's willingness to voluntarily disclose information? This study focuses on a setting where the manager's disclosure complements the expertise of a rival and affects the likelihood of the manager being replaced. The manager's disclosure decision is determined by the trade-off between the severance payment she receives if replaced and the benefits of continuing to manage a firm of high value. I show that an optimally chosen severance payment induces the manager to withhold extreme values and disclose only intermediate values of her private information. Furthermore, in equilibrium, when the manager is offered a severance payment, a disclosing manager is more likely to be replaced than a nondisclosing manager. When no severance payment is provided, a non-disclosing manager is more likely to be replaced. The results emphasize the crucial role of endogenous severance contracts in shaping the relationship between disclosure and managerial turnover. 

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Menon, Rahul, Severance Pay, Voluntary Disclosures, and Managerial Turnover (March 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4070610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4070610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
Ceo stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Adolf , B Gardiner , M
The modern corporation and private property Posted: 1932
C Aghamolla , C Corona , R Zheng
No reliance on guidance: countersignaling in management forecasts
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 245 Posted: 2021
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
818
RANK
444,118
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies