Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Financial Auditors Provide ESG Assurance?

51 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2022 Last revised: 23 Jun 2022

Reinhard Schrank

University of Graz, Center for Accounting Research

Date Written: April 5, 2022

Abstract

The new European regime for environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting requires firms to subject their ESG reports to external assurance. However, there is still a dispute over who should be allowed to provide such assurance. This paper studies how the ESG assurance provider choice spills over to financial reporting. I derive and compare two linear rational expectations equilibria with ESG assurance by a specialized certifier and ESG assurance by the financial auditor. If the financial auditor is in charge of the ESG assurance, the reported ESG performance is tied to the success of the financial audit. This intertwines managers' financial misreporting incentives with the incentive to report positive ESG performance. I find that under tight auditor liability regimes and imprecise accounting systems, the ESG assurance by the financial auditor leads to more accurate financial reporting than ESG assurance by the specialized certifier. Under moderate auditor liability, or accounting system precision, managers prefer the ESG assurance from the certifier, and the financial report is more accurate than under the joint provision of services by the statutory auditor.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Auditor Liability, ESG, Linear Rational Expectations Equilibrium, Non-Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: D82, G38, M42

Suggested Citation:

Schrank, Reinhard, Should Financial Auditors Provide ESG Assurance? (April 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4075736 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4075736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
O Barron , J Pratt , J Stice
Misstatement Direction, Litigation Risk, and Planned Audit Investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 449 - 462 Posted: 2001
C Bleibtreu , U Stefani
Auditing, Consulting, and Audit Market Concentration
Zeitschrift für Betriebswirtschaft , volume 82 , issue 5 , p. 41 - 70 Posted: 2012
M Deng , N Melumad , T Shibano
Auditors' Liability, Investments, and Capital Markets: A Potential Unintended Consequence of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1179 - 1215 Posted: 2012
D Dickins , J Higgs , T Skantz
Estimating audit fees post-sox
Current Issues in Accounting , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 18 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Philip Wallage , Hans Duits , Ziggy Janssen
De aanbodzijde van ESG-assurance
Maandblad voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie , volume 97 , issue 3/4 , p. 65 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,305
RANK
35,060
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies