Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Book-Tax Conformity and its Effects on Earnings Management and Tax Avoidance

41 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022 Last revised: 19 Jan 2024

Felix P. Niggemann

University of Zurich

Date Written: January 18, 2024

Abstract

This paper studies how increasing book-tax conformity affects strategic interactions between the financial and tax reporting process. I propose an economic model in which a manager publicly reports financial earnings and files taxable income, subject to a strategic tax audit. The main finding is that increasing book-tax conformity may increase earnings management and tax avoidance. The reason is that both forms of misreporting interact strategically since earnings management influences the information available to the tax auditor and, thus, the detection risk in the tax audit. The analysis also offers novel empirical predictions, including the following. More stringent financial reporting oversight reduces tax avoidance, but strengthening tax enforcement increases earnings management. Furthermore, firms that are more aggressive in their financial reporting are less tax-aggressive.

Keywords: Book-tax conformity, earnings management, tax compliance, tax avoidance, tax audits.

JEL Classification: H26, K34, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Niggemann, Felix P., Mandatory Book-Tax Conformity and its Effects on Earnings Management and Tax Avoidance (January 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4087152 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4087152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
T Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
B A Badertscher , J D Phillips , M Pincus , S O Rego
Earnings management strategies and the trade-off between tax benefits and detection risk: To conform or not to conform?
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 97 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,177
RANK
237,535
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies