Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Management Control Packages and Organizational Identity

Journal of Management Control

27 Pages Posted: 16 May 2022 Last revised: 20 Feb 2024

Toshiaki Wakabayashi

Sophia University - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: January 11, 2024

Abstract

This study aims to present the conditions under which an organization should use effort standards in addition to performance evaluations for management control. This study uses a mathematical model and focuses on the identities of organizational members and standard-setting cost. This study obtains the following results: First, when an organization uses the effort standard in addition to performance evaluations for management control, it must set relatively high standards at a sufficient cost. Second, the relationship between identity and the principal’s expected utility is U-shaped; in some cases, the principal’s expected utility decreases as identity increases. Third, setting the standard only controls are never optimal. This study contributes additional findings to previous research regarding the role of identity in management control. Moreover, this study has implications for management control packages. From the perspective of increasing the expected utility of the principal, the base of the control package may be accounting control using performance evaluations, and social control using identity may be additional and extended rather than parallel to it.

Keywords: Management control packages, Performance evaluation, Identity, Behavioral contract theory

JEL Classification: D86, D91, M21, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Wakabayashi, Toshiaki, A Theory of Management Control Packages and Organizational Identity (January 11, 2024). Journal of Management Control, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4097306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4097306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , C Hofmann , L Van Lent
Altruism, social norms, and incentive contract design
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2022
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , P Kroos
Organization identity and earnings manipulation
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 58 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2017
M A Abernethy , W F Chua
A field study of control system "redesign": The impact of institutional processes on strategic choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
M A Abernethy , L J Jiang , Y F Kuang
Can organizational identification mitigate the CEO horizon problem?
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 78 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
902
RANK
371,780
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies