Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Career Concerns, Investment, and Management Forecasts

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

48 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022 Last revised: 28 Oct 2024

Tae Wook Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU); University of Texas at Dallas; The University of Hong Kong

Jing Li

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Suil Pae

Sungkyunkwan University, SKK GSB

Date Written: May 4, 2022

Abstract

A firm manager is concerned about both the firm value and the market assessments of his abilities. When investing in a project, he has private knowledge of his project-related ability that interacts with the project investment, and his general ability that produces a cash flow independent of the project cash flow. The concerns about the general (project-related) ability assessment create a signaling incentive to decrease (increase) investment. In the presence of underinvestment (overinvestment), higher-quality earnings information reduces (improves) equilibrium efficiency. When the manager is-sues an earnings forecast as an additional signaling device, the forecast is upwardly biased, and the equilibrium investment is smaller than that without a forecast. The latter is because the signaling incentive to decrease investment is strengthened. When the manager’s concerns about the general ability assessment are relatively large, he is better off by committing to no forecast. Novel empirical predictions about investment and earnings forecast emerge.

Keywords: Career concerns; Investment; Earnings forecast; Efficiency

JEL Classification: D61; G14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Tae Wook and Li, Jing and Pae, Suil, Career Concerns, Investment, and Management Forecasts (May 4, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
C Aghamolla , C Corona , R Zheng
No reliance on guidance: Counter-signaling in management forecasts
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 245 Posted: 2021
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The benefits of aggregate performance metrics in the presence of career concerns
Management Science , volume 57 , issue 8 , p. 1424 - 1437 Posted: 2011
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Career concerns and accounting performance measures in nonprofit organizations , volume 40 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2015
Load more
2 Citations
John L. Campbell , Sean S. Cao , Hye Sun Chang , Raluca Chiorean
The Implications of Firms’ Derivative Usage on the Frequency and Usefulness of Management Earnings Forecasts
Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-127, Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 53 Pages · Posted: 21 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 26 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 604
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jesse Chan , Abhishek Ramchandani
Capital Budgets as Incentives
41 Pages · Posted: 26 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 56
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,191
RANK
154,352
2 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies