Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Asset Pricing and Real Implications of Relationship Intensity Disclosure

68 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 6 Feb 2025

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Jordi Mondria

University of Toronto - Department of Economics

Liyan Yang

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: February 05, 2025

Abstract

Investors in financial markets are often uncertain about the relationship intensity between firms and have to rely on firms' disclosure of such relationship intensity. We analytically study the asset pricing implications of this relationship intensity uncertainty and how such uncertainty affects firms' incentives to form and disclose their relationship intensities (i.e., the real implications). We find that while such disclosure has a positive price impact by increasing the expected cash flow, it also has a negative impact by reducing the diversification benefit of investing in multiple firms that have more correlated cash flows. The price impact upon relationship intensity disclosure is therefore not monotone: it increases with the expected benefit of relationship and decreases with the risk of the underlying relationship. Our analysis implies that mandatory disclosure of firm relationship intensities may both destroy relationship development and reduce investor welfare, i.e., has adverse real consequences.

Keywords: firm relationships, asset prices, disclosure, matching quality, collaboration intensity

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G18, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Xu and Mondria, Jordi and Yang, Liyan, The Asset Pricing and Real Implications of Relationship Intensity Disclosure (February 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4099036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
D Acemoglu , P D Azar
Endogenous production networks Posted: 2017
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
e association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of accounting research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
C S Armstrong , S Banerjee , C Corona
Factor-loading uncertainty and expected returns
Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 158 - 207 Posted: 2013
S P Baginski , K C Rakow
Management earnings forecast disclosure policy and the cost of equity capital
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 279 - 321 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,047
RANK
266,546
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies