Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Nondisclosure in Takeovers

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022 Last revised: 24 May 2022

Jing Li

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Tingjun Liu

The University of Hong Kong

Ran Zhao

Peking University

Date Written: May 4, 2022

Abstract

We examine takeover auctions when an informed bidder has better information about the target value than a rival and target shareholders. The informed bidder's information is either hard or soft, and only hard information can be credibly disclosed. We show that withholding information creates a winner's curse, thereby serving as a preemption device that deters the rival's participation. In turn, an endogenous disclosure cost arises that induces the informed bidder to optimally withhold favorable information to minimize the acquisition price-breaking down the standard unraveling result, even if his information is always hard. Perhaps surprisingly, stronger competition from the uninformed bidder can reduce the target shareholders' payoff and increase the payoff of the informed bidder while unambiguously improving social welfare. Moreover, "hardened" information can reduce the gains to trade, decreasing welfare but increasing shareholders' payoff . Our results provide a cautionary note to promoting more competition and more disclosure.

Keywords: takeovers, voluntary disclosure, winner's curse, asymmetric bidders

JEL Classification: D44, D82, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jing and Liu, Tingjun and Zhao, Ran, Strategic Nondisclosure in Takeovers (May 4, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Meeks
Bidder earnings forecasts in mergers and acquisitions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 58 , p. 373 - 392 Posted: 2019
A Antoniades , C W Calomiris , D M Hitscherich
No free shop: Why target companies sometimes choose not to buy "go-shop" options
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 88 , p. 36 - 64 Posted: 2016
N Aktas , E De Bodt , R Roll
Negotiations under the threat of an auction
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 255 Posted: 2010
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Cyrus Aghamolla , Shunsuke Matsuno
Mandatory vs. Voluntary Disclosure in the Dynamic Market for Lemons
55 Pages · Posted: 17 Jan 2024 · Last revised: 13 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 329
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
818
RANK
264,473
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies