Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Information Precision on Information Acquisition and Feedback

16 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2022

Toru Ishikawa

University of the Ryukyus Faculty of Global and Regional Studies

Date Written: May 26, 2022

Abstract

In capital markets, information disclosure is required to reduce information asymmetry among investors. On the other hand, information held by some market participants is useful for firms' decision making, and the feedback effect, in which information is obtained from prices and used for decision making, has attracted attention in recent years. This feedback effect is caused by information asymmetry. In this study, I show that even in situations where the precision of public information increases and potentially decreases the asymmetry of information, there are cases where the speculator's incentive to acquire information increases and the feedback effect is greater.

Keywords: public information, information acquisition, feedback effect

JEL Classification: D82, D83, M4

Suggested Citation:

Ishikawa, Toru, The Impact of Information Precision on Information Acquisition and Feedback (May 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4119993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4119993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Philip Bond , Alex Edmans , Itay Goldstein
The Real Effects of Financial Markets
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 339 - 360 Posted: 2012
Pingyang Gao , Pierre Jinghong Liang
Informational Feedback, Adverse Selection, and Optimal Disclosure Policy
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 1133 - 1158 Posted: 2013
Itay Goldstein , Liyan Yang
Good disclosure, bad disclosure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 131 , issue 1 , p. 118 - 138 Posted: 2019
Itay Goldstein , Emre Ozdenoren , Kathy Yuan
Trading frenzies and their impact on real investment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 566 - 582 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
765,896
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies