Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A mathematical theory of accounting and discounted cash flows

47 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2022

Yoann Martin

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 2, 2022

Abstract

This paper develops a novel theory of accounting, in the form of a quantitative language, capable of reformulating, generalizing, and studying the discounted cash flow model, in plain accounting terms - going through the reformulation of the underlying future cash flows and their financing. This language reveals new facets of value creation mechanisms, specifically certain dynamic-financial limits (e.g., internal rate of return, cash flow sustainable growth rate) whose level is intrinsically tied to the shape of the fundamental accounting entries, describing the economic activities conducted by companies. Our findings, as to value creation mechanisms, correspond to various empirical observations on stock returns and its major factors (e.g., cash flows, payment terms, growth, inflation and financing rates). This correspondence suggests an original and complementary explanation to those advanced in the literature and finally suggests levers for managers to push back limits, increase cash flows, create more value and generate stock returns.

Keywords: Accounting; Discounted Cash flows; Value; Stock return

JEL Classification: D46; G11; G12; M41

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Yoann, A mathematical theory of accounting and discounted cash flows (June 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4126129 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4126129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
A A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
The American economic review , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
A Arya , J Fellingham , D Schroeder , R Young
Double entry bookkeeping and error correction Posted: 1996
R Ball , J Gerakos , J T Linnainmaa , V Nikolaev
Accruals, cash flows, and operating profitability in the cross section of stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 28 - 45 Posted: 2016
W Balzer , R Mattessich
An axiomatic basis of accounting: A structuralist reconstruction
Theory and Decision , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 243 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
739
RANK
101,650
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies