Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Critical Audit Matter Disclosure on Audit Effort, Investor Scrutiny, and Investment Efficiency

The Accounting Review (Forthcoming)

46 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2022

Derek Chan

University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Nanqin Liu

University of Macau

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

We study the effects of the disclosure of critical audit matters (CAMs) on an auditor's audit effort and an investor's scrutiny effort decisions, as well as on investment efficiency. Both the auditor and the investor can prevent a bad investment by respectively auditing and scrutinizing the firm's financial reports to detect misstatements about the investment value. Investment efficiency is determined by the investor's total mix of information. The disclosure of CAMs helps the investor assess investment risk and infer the auditor's effort, and thus enables the investor to fine-tune scrutiny effort, which can in turn adversely influence the auditor's effort decision. We show when and why the disclosure of CAMs increases or decreases ex ante audit effort, ex ante investor scrutiny, and investment efficiency. Our analyses have both testable empirical implications and policy implications.

Keywords: Auditing, critical audit matters, investment efficiency

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Derek K. and Liu, Nanqin, The Effects of Critical Audit Matter Disclosure on Audit Effort, Investor Scrutiny, and Investment Efficiency (August 1, 2022). The Accounting Review (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4178198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Arens , J Loebbecke
Applications of Statistical Sampling to Auditing Posted: 1981
N R Berglund
Do Client Bankruptcies Preceded by Clean Audit Opinions Damage Auditor Reputation?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1914 - 1951 Posted: 2020
J P Boone , I Khurana , K K Raman
Do the Big 4 and Second-Tier Firms Provide Audits of Similar Quality
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 330 - 352 Posted: 2010
K R Brasel , M M Doxey , J H Grenier , A Re¤ett
Risk Disclosure Preceding Negative Outcomes: The E¤ects of Reporting Critical Audit Matters on Judgments of Auditor Liability
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1345 - 1362 Posted: 2016
Load more
6 Citations
Minlei Ye
The Theory of Auditing Economics: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
127 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 10 May 2023 · Downloads: 1,026
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christoph Teucher , Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel
Which Audit Procedures Drive Audit Quality at the Account and Entity Level? Evidence from Key Audit Matter Reporting
48 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2022 · Last revised: 8 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 744
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Truc (Peter) Do , Will Anding , Alyssa B. Moore
Employee Health and Financial Reporting Quality
57 Pages · Posted: 30 Nov 2023 · Last revised: 12 Jun 2025 · Downloads: 185
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lin Liao , Miguel Minutti-Meza , Valbona Sulcaj , Yun Zhang , Youli Zou
Consequences of Key Audit Matters in Emerging Economies: Evidence from Hong Kong and Mainland China
86 Pages · Posted: 15 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 224
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
798
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,246
RANK
71,261
6 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies