Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Disaggregated Information in the Presence of Reputational Concerns

Management Science, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2022

Tae Wook Kim

City University of Hong Kong (CityU); University of Texas at Dallas; The University of Hong Kong

Suil Pae

Sungkyunkwan University, SKK GSB

Date Written: August 30, 2022

Abstract

This study examines a reputation-concerned entrepreneur’s incentives to provide disaggregated information about a project’s future performance when he seeks to increase both the market price of the project and the market assessment of his ability as a project manager. Two factors determine equilibrium: (i) the informational quality of the signal related to the entrepreneur’s ability; and (ii) the magnitude of reputational concerns. If the former is relatively low, the entrepreneur with moderate reputational concerns is more likely to provide disaggregated information when the signal about the project’s overall performance is intermediate than when it is sufficiently good or bad. Also, given any value of the signal about the overall performance, this entrepreneur withholds disaggregated information when the signal about his ability is intermediate, rather than sufficiently good or bad. The comparative static results provide novel empirical predictions about disclosure of aggregate versus disaggregated information.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure; Disaggregated information; Reputational concerns

JEL Classification: D61, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Tae Wook and Pae, Suil, Disclosure of Disaggregated Information in the Presence of Reputational Concerns (August 30, 2022). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4204144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
RANK
322,813
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies