Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Lease Accounting

47 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022 Last revised: 1 Dec 2023

Tong Lu

University of Houston

Lijun Ruan

New Jersey City University

Yanyan Wang

Xiamen University

Lisheng Yu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Date Written: October 30, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the valuation and real effects of off-balance-sheet versus capitalization accounting for operating leases. We consider a firm that combines two types of investments to produce short-term and long-term returns. One type of investments (leases) requires periodic expenditures and the other (organization capital) requires an upfront expenditure. We show how the informational difference between the two accounting regimes induces different capital market valuations and different corporate investment decisions. The corporate investment efficiency in an accounting regime hinges on three parameters: persistence of short-term investment return, ratio of productivity of lease investment to productivity of organization capital, and discount rate used to measure lease investment. We find that the off-balance-sheet accounting induces a higher investment efficiency for high values of those parameters whereas the capitalization accounting induces a higher investment efficiency for low values. Our result implies that capitalizing all the operating leases may be detrimental to corporate value creation.

Keywords: Operating leases; Off-balance-sheet; Capitalization; Investment efficiency.

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G18, G38

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Tong and Ruan, Lijun and Wang, Yanyan and Yu, Lisheng, Real Effects of Lease Accounting (October 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4206158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4206158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J Altamuro , R Johnston , S Pandit , H Zhang
Operating leases and credit assessments. Contem-13 Because c = x1 -N -Z = I -Z, c has no incremental information content relative to {Z, I}. 14 Because assets = c = eO, neither the assets nor c has any incremental information content relative to eO
porary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2014
L Bebchuk , L Stole
Do short-term objectives lead to under-or overinvestment in long-term projects?
The Journal of Finance , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 719 - 729 Posted: 1993
Chang , Adams Consulting
Economic impact of the current IASB and FASB exposure draft on leases Posted: 2012
C Chen , M Correia , O Urcan
Accounting for leases and corporate investment
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 3 , p. 109 - 133 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
937
RANK
390,788
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies