Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Long Term Firm Gains From Short Term Managerial Focus: Myopia and Voluntary Disclosures

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022 Last revised: 26 Sep 2023

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: October 3, 2022

Abstract

A CEO’s short horizon and associated myopic actions are typically viewed as detrimental to the firm. In contrast, studying a voluntary disclosure model wherein capital market and product market strategic considerations are in play, we show that the CEO’s myopic behavior can improve a firm’s long-term value. In particular, the disclosures of a long-horizon CEO are seen as being entirely focused on the firm’s interests and thus as being exploitative of customers. A short-horizon CEO myopically focused on short-term stock price is less aligned with the firm and, consequently, her disclosures are more customer friendly. As a corollary, when no disclosure is forthcoming, customers are less skeptical that the myopic CEO is withholding information to exploit them. This improves customers’ willingness to pay with a myopic CEO, leading to higher firm profitability. The paper also layers in compensation design to derive the optimal degree of managerial short-term focus to induce.

Keywords: Compensation design, Customer purchases, Managerial myopia, Voluntary disclosures

JEL Classification: D82, L11, M40

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Ramanan, Ram, Long Term Firm Gains From Short Term Managerial Focus: Myopia and Voluntary Disclosures (October 3, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4236553 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4236553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M Alles , S Datar
Strategic transfer pricing
Management Science , volume 44 , issue 4 , p. 451 - 461 Posted: 1998
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Benefits of channel discord in the sale of durable goods
Marketing Science , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 96 Posted: 2006
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N Ramanan
Beyond profits: The rise of dual-purpose organizations and its consequences for disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 43 Posted: 2019
A Arya , R N Ramanan
Voluntary disclosure in light of control concerns
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 2824 - 2850 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,053
RANK
218,186
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies