Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure in Leader-Follower Markets

43 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022 Last revised: 30 Jul 2025

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Robert F. Göx

University of Zurich - Managerial Accounting; University of Zurich - Faculty of Economics, Business Administration and Information Technology

Date Written: July 30, 2025

Abstract

We study voluntary disclosure strategies in a leader-follower market. The firm's role in the market determines the amount and the type of information disclosed. The leader moves first and chooses an observable action. It can either disclose its private information or signal it through its action. We compare the least-cost separating equilibrium to a pooling equilibrium with partial disclosure. In the former, the leader discloses its information and its information endowment. In the latter, the leader discloses bad news and withholds good news. Partial disclosure is strictly preferred by the leader regardless of its private information if information spillover among firms and competitive forces are sufficiently strong, but the leader's information endowment is limited. The follower is the second mover and either discloses good or bad news. Disclosing good news is optimal if information spillover is important but competitive forces are weak, and vice versa if the opposite holds. Our findings provide novel empirical predictions regarding the cross-sectional variation of disclosure strategies.

Keywords: market leadership, voluntary disclosure, investment, Leader-follower markets

JEL Classification: D43, L13, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Goex, Robert F., Voluntary Disclosure in Leader-Follower Markets (July 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4268220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4268220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
A Ali , E Klasa , Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
A Arya , B Mittendorf , A Sudbury
Forward Contracting and Incentives for Disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1093 - 1121 Posted: 2015
A Arya , B Mittendorf , D Yoon
The Impact of Uniform Pricing Regulations on Incentives to Generate and Disclose Accounting Information
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1975 - 1992 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
857
RANK
362,694
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies