Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm Split-Up: The Effect on Audit Quality and the Role of Enforcement Strength

40 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2022 Last revised: 24 Mar 2023

Alexandra Lilge

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Maximilian Rohmann

Leibniz Universität Hannover - Faculty of Economics and Management

Date Written: November 30, 2022

Abstract

Using a game-theoretic model, we examine reasons and driving forces for audit firm split-ups, like the one planned by EY. In addition, we analyze potential consequences of audit firm split-ups on audit quality and the role of enforcement strength. We find three effects determining the split-up decision and its consequences. First, as the advisory partner wants to prevent an adverse audit opinion to keep the client, independence problems arise. Second, as the advisory partner loses reputation in case of an audit failure, an advisory project creates positive effort incentives. Third, spillovers from audit to advisory lower the advisory partner's project costs.
We show that the enforcement institution's ability to detect material misstatements within the audited financial statement determines which of the first two effects dominates. Strong enforcement increases the reputation effect, setting positive effort incentives resulting in a lower preference to split the audit firm and a higher audit quality of the combined firm if the return from advisory projects is high. Thus, the overall effect of split-ups on audit quality is ambiguous, depending on the enforcement environment and the spillover from audit to advisory for advisory projects.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Audit Firm Sharing Rule, Non-Audit-Service, Auditor Independence

JEL Classification: M42, M48, M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Lilge, Alexandra and Rohmann, Maximilian, Audit Firm Split-Up: The Effect on Audit Quality and the Role of Enforcement Strength (November 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4289416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4289416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
923
RANK
327,219
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies