Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On The Use Of Calibration Committees In Subjective Performance Evaluation

33 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2022 Last revised: 29 Apr 2025

Takahiro Morimitsu

Meiji University

Taichi Kimura

Keio University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Date Written: April 29, 2025

Abstract

Calibration committees (CCs) have become a widespread organizational practice to mitigate biases in subjective performance evaluations, yet theoretical guidance on when they are cost-effective remains limited. This paper develops a one-period principal-agent model in which a risk-neutral employer may convene a CC, incorporating evaluations from both the employer and the worker's immediate boss, at a fixed administrative cost. Subjective 'high/low' ratings are unverifiable, and the employer employs a money-burning mechanism that destroys part of the deferred wage after unfavorable ratings to ensure incentive alignment in a single-period contract. We derive closed-form solutions for the optimal burn amounts and identify the conditions under which convening a CC reduces the employer's total expected cost. Our analysis shows that a CC is efficient only when its cost is sufficiently low and evaluator disagreements provide sufficiently informative signals, specifically, when the middle rating is meaningfully distinct from the extremes. We also characterize how the accuracies of the boss's and employer's ratings, as well as the probability of high evaluations, affect the thresholds for CC adoption. These results reconcile mixed empirical findings and offer managers practical guidance on when CCs should be implemented to improve the effectiveness of subjective performance evaluation systems.

Keywords: Calibration Committee, Subjective Performance Evaluation, Money Burning, Compensation Contracts

JEL Classification: M41, M52, D23, D82

Suggested Citation:

Morimitsu, Takahiro and Kimura, Taichi, On The Use Of Calibration Committees In Subjective Performance Evaluation (April 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4290250 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4290250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
T S Ahn , I Hwang , M.-I Kim
The impact of performance measure discriminability on ratee incentives
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 389 - 417 Posted: 2010
I Alves , S M Lourenço
Subjective performance evaluation and managerial work outcomes
Accounting and Business Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 127 - 157 Posted: 2023
L Bock
Work rules!: Insights from inside google that will transform how you live and lead Posted: 2015
J C Bol
The determinants and performance effects of managers' performance evaluation biases
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1549 - 1575 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,067
RANK
444,118
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies