Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responsible Investors and Stock Market Feedback

62 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2022 Last revised: 2 Sep 2025

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Jan Schneemeier

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine how stock market feedback affects corporate investment when responsible investors are active in the market. These investors experience a disutility when the firm’s investment decisions are misaligned with their non-financial preferences. A manager chooses between two projects that are ex-ante financially equivalent: a “green” one aligned with investor preferences and a “brown” one that is not (e.g., due to environmental or social concerns). The success of the project depends on matching the investment with the state of nature. Because responsible investors prefer holding green firms, trading is more informative when the firm signals green, strengthening market feedback. Anticipating this, the manager may misreport a brown signal as green to attract responsible investors. However, such manipulation can deter investors from acquiring information and reduce the firm's value. The mechanism is robust to alternative investor compositions, including cases where only the market maker is responsible.

Keywords: Manipulation, market feedback, reporting strategy, price efficiency, real efficiency

JEL Classification: G14, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Schneemeier, Jan, Responsible Investors and Stock Market Feedback (July 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4296418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4296418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
C Aghamolla , B.-J An
Mandatory vs. voluntary ESG disclosure, efficiency, and real effects Posted: 2021
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N Ramanan
Synergy between accounting disclosures and forward-looking information in stock prices
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2017
A Arya , R N Ramanan
Disclosure to regulate learning in product markets from the stock market
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2022
S Banerjee , B Breon-Drish , K Smith
Feedback effects and systematic risk exposures
Journal of Finance , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 981 - 1028 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,276
RANK
249,893
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies