Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary versus Mandatory Disclosure of Liability Insurance Coverage Limit

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278425422000928

54 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2022

Xue Jia

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Jeroen Suijs

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: December 9, 2022

Abstract

This article analyzes the disclosure of the liability insurance coverage limit and the impact of mandating disclosure of the coverage limit in a setting where voluntary disclosure of a firm's cash flow information is subject to litigation risk and the firm has directors' and officers' (D\&O) liability insurance. Disclosure of cash flow information is costly, but disclosure of the insurance coverage limit features no direct disclosure friction. We find that, when the litigation environment is weak, the usual unraveling argument applies, and the manager always voluntarily discloses the coverage limit in equilibrium. However, when the litigation environment is strong, either no coverage limit is disclosed or only sufficiently high coverage limits are disclosed in equilibrium. Further analysis shows that mandatory disclosure of the coverage limit increases the voluntary disclosure of cash flow information.

Keywords: Liability insurance, Coverage limit, Litigation, Disclosure

JEL Classification: D40, D80, G22, K22

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Xue and Suijs, Jeroen, Voluntary versus Mandatory Disclosure of Liability Insurance Coverage Limit (December 9, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278425422000928, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4298640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4298640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
605
RANK
747,544
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies