Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Cycles and Asymmetric Accounting

45 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2022 Last revised: 10 May 2025

Tong Lu

University of Houston

Ellen Wang

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Chunxiao Xue

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: December 13, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates how asymmetric accounting influences aggregate investment efficiency over boom–bust business cycles. Accounting asymmetry can be downward (conservative accounting) or upward (liberal accounting), with accounting symmetry (neutral accounting) as a special case. We find that neither symmetry nor upward asymmetry resolves the problem of aggregate underinvestment during booms, while extreme downward asymmetry creates a problem of aggregate overinvestment during busts. There exists a unique degree of downward asymmetry that maximizes aggregate investment efficiency. This efficiency-maximizing asymmetry varies with accounting and economic factors, such as quality of accounting system before introducing asymmetry, sensitivity of firms’ investment projects to state of the economy, and volatility of state. Our analysis highlights asymmetric accounting as a novel policy tool in macroeconomic management and as an additional consideration in the debate over neutrality versus conservatism in conceptual frameworks for financial reporting.

JEL Classification: E32, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Tong and Wang, Ellen and Xue, Chunxiao, Asymmetric Cycles and Asymmetric Accounting (December 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300872 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4300872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Abdalla , J Carabias
From accounting to economics: The role of aggregate special items in gauging the state of the economy
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , A Scott
Asymmetric business cycles: Theory and time-series evidence
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 501 - 533 Posted: 1997
C Armstrong , D Taylor , R Verrecchia
Asymmetric reporting
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 32 Posted: 2016
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,115
RANK
364,455
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies