Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Changes and Enforcement of Bank Capital Requirements in a Crisis

49 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2023 Last revised: 16 May 2024

Natalija Kostic

Vienna University of Economics and Business; Vienna Graduate School of Finance (VGSF)

Christian Laux

Vienna University of Economics and Business; Vienna Graduate School of Finance (VGSF); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Viktoria Muthsam

Vienna University of Economics and Business; Vienna Graduate School of Finance (VGSF)

Date Written: April 22, 2024

Abstract

In a systemic banking crisis, regulators often relax the accounting rules that determine regulatory capital. We develop a model to show that these changes can increase banks' incentives to raise capital. Banks trade off the cost of raising equity and violating regulatory capital requirements. A crisis weakens the enforcement of capital requirements, reducing banks’ incentives to recapitalize. Reducing the impact of fair value or expected credit losses on banks’ regulatory capital lowers the amount of equity that banks must raise to fulfill regulatory capital requirements. Banks that do not recapitalize under existing accounting rules can find it optimal to raise equity to avoid regulatory intervention after accounting rules are relaxed. We also discuss the distinct roles of commitment to enforce regulatory capital requirements and commitment to not change accounting rules and compare relaxing accounting rules and other mechanisms, such as relaxing capital requirements.

Keywords: bank regulation; capital requirements; recapitalization; regulatory forbearance; fair value accounting; expected losses; financial crisis

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kostic, Natalija and Laux, Christian and Muthsam, Viktoria, Accounting Changes and Enforcement of Bank Capital Requirements in a Crisis (April 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4317002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4317002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J Abad , J Suarez
The procyclicality of expected credit loss provisions Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , T Yorulmazer
Too many to fail-An analysis of time-inconsistency in bank closure policies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2007
V V Acharya , T Yorulmazer
Cash-in-the-market pricing and optimal resolution of bank failures
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 6 , p. 2705 - 2742 Posted: 2008
A R Admati , P M Demarzo , M F Hellwig , P Pfleiderer
The leverage ratchet effect
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 198 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,145
RANK
226,777
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies