Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure to Competitors in Light of Endogenous Firm Investments

37 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2023 Last revised: 9 Jan 2024

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Hans Frimor

Aarhus University; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Business and Economics

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Date Written: January 2024

Abstract

This paper extends a familiar model of competition and disclosure to incorporate the practical feature that firms may not only hold private information about consumer demand, but that they can also influence demand (and profitability) by the investments they choose to make. Such investments in bolstering brand loyalty, product quality, cost savings, and the like are central to firm strategy. The paper demonstrates that investments stand to significantly influence the preference for disclosures and, in fact, become a determining feature of disclosure choice. In particular, under Cournot competition, a firm prefers disclosure when the intra-industry spillovers from investments and from information are concordant. If both spillovers are high, disclosure promotes implicit cooperation in investments; if spillovers are low, disclosure promotes the firms implicitly alternating monopoly power based on stochastic information realizations. We demonstrate the robustness of our findings by extending the results to settings wherein (i) firms undertake multiple investments, (ii) investment lead time affords flexibility for firms to delay their disclosure, and (iii) retail market is characterized by Bertrand competition.

Keywords: competition; disclosure; innovation; investment; product quality; spillover

JEL Classification: D82; L13; M41

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Frimor, Hans and Frimor, Hans and Mittendorf, Brian and Pfeiffer, Thomas, Disclosure to Competitors in Light of Endogenous Firm Investments (January 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4333794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4333794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, product market competition, and strategic disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
A Arya , B Mittendorf , D-H. Yoon
Public disclosures in the presence of suppliers and competitors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 758 - 772 Posted: 2019
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R Ramanan
Beyond profits: the rise of dual-purpose organizations and its consequences for disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 43 Posted: 2019
A Arya , H Frimor , B Mittendorf
Compliance with segment disclosure initiatives: implications for the short and long run
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 34 , issue 7-8 , p. 488 - 501 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
398
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,565
RANK
169,614
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies