Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Overoptimism, Discretionary Disclosure, and Certification

66 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2023 Last revised: 4 Apr 2024

Nikolaj Niebuhr Lambertsen

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business Economics

Matthias Lassak

Aarhus University; Danish Finance Institute

Date Written: February 28, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of managerial overoptimism on discretionary disclosure of subjective information, such as earnings forecasts, and the decision to acquire external certification. The market applies a discount upon disclosure to capture the possibility that the revealed subjective expectation is too optimistic. The resulting mispricing incentivizes objective managers to acquire certification, allowing them to separate from overoptimistic managers’ disclosures. Depending on the certification market structure, the certification fee, and the extent of overoptimism, the disclosure-certification equilibrium may be: i) Separating, where only objective managers acquire certification, ii) pooling, where both manager types disclose without certification, or iii) partially pooling, where the objective managers acquire certification only for sufficiently favorable information.

Keywords: Discretionary Disclosure, Managerial Overoptimism, Mispricing, Sentiment, Certification, Assurance Engagements

JEL Classification: D91, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lambertsen, Nikolaj Niebuhr and Lassak, Matthias, Managerial Overoptimism, Discretionary Disclosure, and Certification (February 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4336097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4336097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
C Aghamolla , C Corona , R Zheng
No reliance on guidance: counter-signaling in management forecasts
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 245 Posted: 2021
A S Ahmed , B E Christensen , A J Olson , C G Yust
Déjà vu: The effect of executives and directors with prior banking crisis experience on bank outcomes around the global financial crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 958 - 998 Posted: 2019
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,013
RANK
331,544
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies