Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When do corporate penalties for financial misreporting enhance long-term firm value? 

Review of Accounting Studies (forthcoming)

88 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2023 Last revised: 30 Sep 2025

Stefan Schantl

The University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Alfred Wagenhofer

University of Graz

Date Written: September 30, 2025

Abstract

Securities regulators frequently punish firms for their managers' misreporting. They argue that this would enhance firms' long-term value by mitigating underinvestment in compliance mechanisms, such as internal controls over financial reporting. Opponents of corporate penalties argue that the penalties would harm the very same investors already harmed by misreporting. We evaluate these arguments in a model with a capital market-oriented misreporting manager and a board of directors that invests in internal control quality. We identify governance transparency and board dependence as key factors that moderate the firm-value effects of corporate penalties. Internal control underinvestment occurs only if the board is severely dependent and if its choice of internal controls is opaque. Then corporate penalties curb internal control underinvestment, but they only improve long-term firm value if, additionally, internal control costs are sufficiently small (e.g., in small and less complex firms). Overall, our differentiated results have implications for regulatory enforcement policies and empirical studies on the firm-value effects of public enforcement.

Keywords: public enforcement, internal controls, governance transparency, board dependence, corporate penalties

JEL Classification: G39, K22, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schantl, Stefan and Wagenhofer, Alfred, When do corporate penalties for financial misreporting enhance long-term firm value?  (September 30, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4337009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4337009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Corporate governance, audit quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: evidence from internal audit outsourcing , volume 82 Posted: 2007
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2007
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deciencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 Posted: 2007
T Baldenius , N Melumad , X Meng
Board composition and CEO power
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 112 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,184
RANK
245,414
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies