Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Models of Accounting Disclosure by Banking Institutions

179 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2023

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: January 27, 2023

Abstract

In this monograph, I advocate and illustrate an emerging stream of accounting literature that deploys economic models to study issues of accounting disclosure by banking institutions. To motivate the focus on a specific industry (banking), I identify two banking specificities: first, banks are fragile to the risk of runs due to their economic roles in liquidity creation, and second, banks are heavily regulated due to a desire to protect uninformed and dispersed depositors. More importantly, I show that considering these banking specificities, accounting disclosure by banks can play a prominent role in influencing the stability and the efficiency of the banking system. I present workhorse models that can be adapted as building blocks to capture the roles of accounting disclosure in the banking industry. I also draw on recent studies to illustrate specific accounting applications of the workhorse models and discuss their potential to generate implications that inform policy debates and empirical tests.

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Gaoqing, Models of Accounting Disclosure by Banking Institutions (January 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4339887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4339887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
961
RANK
268,675
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies