Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Health of a Company and the Risk of its Default: Back to the Future

41 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2023

Gianmarco Bet

University of Florence - School of Mathematical, Physical and Natural Sciences

Francesco Dainelli

University of Florence - Department of Business Administration

Eugenio Fabrizi

University of Florence - School of Mathematical, Physical and Natural Sciences

Date Written: February 8, 2023

Abstract

We theorize the financial health of a company and the risk of its default. A company is financially healthy as long as its equilibrium in the financial system is maintained, which depends on the cost attributable to the probability that equilibrium may decay. The estimate of that probability is based on the credibility and uncertainty of the company’s financial forecasts. Accordingly, we develop an equilibrium model establishing ranges of interest rates as a function of predictable corporate performance and of its credit supply conditions. As a result, our model estimates idiosyncratic default risk and provides intrinsically forward-looking PD.

Keywords: financial equilibrium models, probability of default, credit risk, idiosyncratic risk, forward-looking models, credit pricing

JEL Classification: G17, G21, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Bet, Gianmarco and Dainelli, Francesco and Fabrizi, Eugenio, The Financial Health of a Company and the Risk of its Default: Back to the Future (February 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4351506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4351506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,373
RANK
314,223
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies