Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Intrafirm Incentive Conflicts on the Interplay between Tax Incidence and Economic Efficiency

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023 Last revised: 5 May 2023

Qintao Fan

University of Oregon, Lundquist School of Business

Nicole Bastian Johnson

University of Oregon

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

We study how corporate taxation interacts with intra-firm incentive conflicts between shareholders and managers and how this interaction impacts the firm’s economic decisions and outcomes. In our model, investment under asymmetric information facilitates entrenchment and rent extraction by the privately informed manager. We show that when the future investment payoff is exogenous, a corporate tax cut increases managerial rents, reduces pre-tax investment profitability, increases the firm’s optimal investment hurdle rate, and reduces investment. When the manager can exert upfront project development effort to increase the expected investment payoff, a tax rate reduction encourages more effort, but also leads the firm to increase the investment hurdle rate to curtail rents. In equilibrium, a lower tax rate always benefits the manager, but the sensitivity of the project’s return to the manager’s effort determines whether the firm will increase or decrease investment in response to a tax cut, and whether the firm’s resulting pre-tax profit will increase or decrease. Overall, our study shows that intra-firm incentive conflicts can be an important factor in the interplay between tax incidence and economic efficiency, two central themes in corporate tax policy debates.

Keywords: Investment, tax incidence, corporate taxes, informational rents, managerial entrenchment

JEL Classification: D82, G31, H21

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Qintao and Johnson, Nicole Bastian and Pfeiffer, Thomas, The Impact of Intrafirm Incentive Conflicts on the Interplay between Tax Incidence and Economic Efficiency (March 14, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4388669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4388669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
659
RANK
584,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies