Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Tax Planning

42 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2023

Mark Penno

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 2022

Abstract

I model a tax planning setting where the tax authority decides whether to challenge a taxpayer’s deduction with a limited scope audit, and the taxpayer must balance the probability of a rejected deduction against the size of an aggressive claim. Multiple interpretations are possible given the language-based classifications found in the tax code, and while the underlying facts are freely available (not hidden from the tax authority), the tax authority must still come to a judgment as to whether a transaction has been properly classified. Accordingly, as long as the probability of denying the claim is less than 50%, the doctrine of substantial authority protects the taxpayer from the assessment of tax penalties. The model describes a possible perception of ‘undersheltering’ where taxpayers with moderate unchallenged claims coexist with (potentially similar) taxpayers who make aggressive challenged ones. In contrast to models of tax evasion, the model describes how the tax authority’s net tax collections may increase under a policy of fewer challenges.

Keywords: Tax planning, Substantial authority, Shadow standard, FIN 48.

Suggested Citation:

Penno, Mark C., A Theory of Tax Planning (October 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4391927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4391927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,021
RANK
330,062
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies