Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Auditor as an Arbiter of Qualitative Judgments

35 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2023

Mark Penno

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 2023

Abstract

While the quantitative features of reporting schemes may create an impression of factuality, auditors must also evaluate qualitative classifications in order to complete their assessment of a client’s financial report. Consequently, rent-seeking clients may choose to exploit a reporting scheme’s language even when the auditor is independent and has complete access to the underlying facts. I model a setting where the client’s opportunism is moderated by the enforcement infrastructure, the spirit of the reporting standard and the precision of the standard’s language. The results show that rent-seeking and the level of inter-auditor agreement (objectivity) may be substitutes, complements or unrelated, depending on which policy tool is varied. Finally, the model introduces the notion of classificatory conservatism. While classificatory conservatism reduces rent-seeking, it also reduces inter-auditor agreement. Accordingly, the model provides a novel perspective on the effects of accounting policy on the auditor’s judgments.

Keywords: Accounting classifications, Legitimacy, Rent-seeking, Accounting precision, Classificatory conservatism

Suggested Citation:

Penno, Mark C., The Auditor as an Arbiter of Qualitative Judgments (January 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4391920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4391920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
RANK
805,600
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies