Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Perspective on Asymmetric Cost Behavior

44 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2023

Eti Einhorn

Tel Aviv University

Efrat Shust

The Department of Management and Economics, The Open University of Israel

Date Written: April 4, 2023

Abstract

The research on asymmetric cost behavior, despite its large body and fundamental importance, has evolved empirically and lacks a theoretical guidance. In light of this gap in the literature, we offer a novel theoretical framework for studying the phenomenon of cost asymmetry. Our study highlights the fundamental nature of cost asymmetry by showing that it is expected to emerge in equilibrium, even in a frictionless setting that is devoid of any known causes of cost asymmetry. This interestingly suggests that cost behavior is asymmetric by default, indicating that all the previously explored determinants of cost stickiness or cost anti-stickiness either enhance or counterbalance the already fundamentally arising cost asymmetry. On this ground, we additionally develop a capital market oriented theory that explores a new source for the empirically observed cost stickiness pattern by demonstrating a signaling mechanism that relies on managerial decisions of resource adjustment in response to demand shocks.

Keywords: cost behavior; cost asymmetry; cost stickiness; cost anti-stickiness; signaling; capital market signaling

JEL Classification: D21; D24; D82; M41

Suggested Citation:

Einhorn, Eti and Shust, Efrat, A New Perspective on Asymmetric Cost Behavior (April 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4409936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4409936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
RANK
429,664
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies