Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Reporting Trade-offs

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 119

53 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2023 Last revised: 28 Feb 2025

Sandra Kronenberger

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Gutenberg School of Economics and Management

Sebastian Kronenberger

University of Mannheim; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Anna Waldner

CAMPUS 02 , University of Applied Sciences

Date Written: May 3, 2024

Abstract

This paper analyzes the information content of several fair value measurement options and the manager's and investors' preferences about these options. The fair value hierarchy presented in the current accounting standards requires preparers
to choose the measurement approach that uses the most observable inputs and the least unobservable inputs. We develop a model of rational expectations, where each available measurement approach includes a public market-wide signal and a private signal to the manager. The company's manager can either report using the approach with more public information, with less public information, or a mix of both (full information approach). We compare these options and find that strictly  following the fair value hierarchy never provides the most decision relevant information. However, when allowing for managerial discretion, the manager would sometimes choose the measurement approach that is also preferred by investors, despite the manager's incentives to manipulate. The insights are important to regulators as they show the relation between inputs and outputs of fair value measurement and emphasize the value of managerial discretion.

Keywords: Fair Value, Value Relevance, managerial bias

Suggested Citation:

Kronenberger, Sandra and Kronenberger, Sebastian and Waldner, Anna, Fair Value Reporting Trade-offs (May 3, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 119, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4410326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4410326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
F Allen , E Carletti
Markt-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 2-3 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
J M Altamuro , H Zhang
The financial reporting of fair value based on managerial inputs versus market inputs: Evidence from mortage servicing rights
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 833 - 858 Posted: 2013
D Barr-Pulliam , J R Joe , S A Mason , K Sanderson
Unlocking the Black Box of Fair Value Measurement for Financial Instruments: The Role and Perspectives of Accounting Firm-Employed Specialists
Whitepaper for the IAASB and ICAS Foundation Posted: 2019
M E Barth , C Hunter , W C Kaufman , G G Tsatsaronis , K
Fair Values and Financial Statement Volatility in Borio
The Market Discipline Across Countries and Industries Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
371,780
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies