Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Nature of Financial Analysis in the Presence of ETFs

51 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2023

Russell Lundholm

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Xin Zheng

University of British Columbia, Sauder School of Business, Students

Date Written: February 1, 2023

Abstract

In this paper we study how the launch of an electronically traded fund (ETF) that holds firms in a specific industry changes the behaviour of analysts who follow that industry’s constituent firms. An industry ETF effectively allows investors to trade the firm-specific payoff component separately from the industry payoff component. We find that this causes significant changes in the value of different types of information. In particular, we find that following an increase in a firm’s industry ETF coverage, the firm’s analyst coverage increases in the following year, and this holds after controlling for changes in institutional investment and other firm and market characteristics. We also find that following an increase in ETF coverage, analyst recommendations are more likely to include an industry recommendation separate from the firm-specific recommendation, and the firm-specific recommendation is more likely to be stated in relative terms. Our results get stronger the better the new ETF is at providing a hedge against the industry payoff factor, and get stronger when we introduce a plausible control for endogeneity.

Suggested Citation:

Lundholm, Russell and Zheng, Xin, The Changing Nature of Financial Analysis in the Presence of ETFs (February 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4411825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4411825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,005
RANK
317,057
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies