Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conversations Between Managers and Investors

49 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023 Last revised: 22 May 2024

Evgeny Petrov

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Stefan Schantl

The University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 13, 2024

Abstract

In business practice, managers and investors frequently meet and exchange information. We develop a model to study the conversation dynamics between a myopic manager and a long-term active investor with complementary private signals. Managerial disclosure improves the efficiency of the investor's value-enhancing decision but is costly for both the firm and the manager. The two costs give rise to both over- and underdisclosure problems, and the investor has incentives to
strategically convey her private information to mitigate both problems. We show that the overall disclosure likelihood is lower with than without investor communication, but that both the manager and the investor prefer such communication, as it enables them to economize over disclosure costs. Lastly, increasing proprietary costs exacerbate the overdisclosure problem, and the resulting changes in investor communication can lead to a higher disclosure likelihood. Our study provides a rationale for frequent meetings between managers and investors and has implications for empirical research on disclosure around meetings with investors (e.g., earnings conference calls) and the effects of proprietary costs.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, public information, information demand, conversations

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Petrov, Evgeny and Schantl, Stefan, Conversations Between Managers and Investors (May 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4412167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4412167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association Between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry Concentration and Corporate Disclosure Policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
N Antic , A Chakraborty , R Harbaugh
Subversive Conversations Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,230
RANK
268,675
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies