Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence in the Prudential Regulation of Banks: Are Uniform Accounting Rules the Missing Piece?

Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2023

49 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2023 Last revised: 8 Oct 2025

Lucas Mahieux

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: October 07, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines how the desirability of international capital requirements depends jointly on the uniformity of accounting rules and the heterogeneity of bank-failure externalities across countries. To that end, I build a model of international prudential regulation in which banks from different countries compete with each other. To curb excessive lending by banks, prudential regulators set capital requirements based on accounting information. I compare a regime in which local regulators set local capital requirements with a regime in which a global regulator sets an international capital requirement. First, if countries experience similar externalities from bank failure, an international capital requirement is desirable when countries have uniform accounting rules, because the global regulator internalizes the cross-country spillovers arising from competition. By contrast, when countries have different accounting rules, an international capital requirement may not be desirable, because local regulators better tailor capital requirements to different accounting rules. Second, if countries differ in the severity of bank-failure externalities, a global regulator may not be desirable, even when countries have uniform accounting rules. Thus, uniform accounting rules may increase the effectiveness of international capital requirements, but their desirability is not always contingent on such uniformity.

Keywords: international capital requirements, uniform accounting rules, prudential regulation, accounting standards, bank-failure externalities

JEL Classification: D80, G20, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mahieux, Lucas, Convergence in the Prudential Regulation of Banks: Are Uniform Accounting Rules the Missing Piece? (October 07, 2025). Proceedings of the EUROFIDAI-ESSEC Paris December Finance Meeting 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4412216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4412216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
V V Acharya
Is the international convergence of capital adequacy regulation desirable?
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 6 Posted: 2003
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 Posted: 2016
A Admati , M Hellwig
The bankers' new clothes Posted: 2014
A R Admati , P Peiderer
Forcing rms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
RANK
481,162
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies