Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
With a Grain of Salt: Uncertain Veracity of External News and Firm Disclosures

62 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2023 Last revised: 21 Oct 2023

Jonathan Libgober

University of Southern California - Department of Economics

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Elyashiv Wiedman

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine how uncertain veracity of external news influences investor beliefs, market prices and corporate disclosures. Despite assuming independence between the news' veracity and the firm’s endowment with private information, we find that favorable news is taken “with a grain of salt” in equilibrium—more precisely, perceived as less likely veracious—which reinforces investor beliefs that nondisclosing managers are hiding disadvantageous information. Hence more favorable external news could paradoxically lead to lower market valuation. That is, amid management silence, stock prices may be non-monotonic in the positivity of external news. In line with mounting empirical evidence, our analysis implies asymmetric price reactions to news and price declines following firm disclosures. We further predict that external news that is more likely veracious may increase or decrease the probability of disclosure and link these effects to empirically observable characteristics.


Earlier version of this paper is available here: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3994932

Keywords: uncertain relevance; voluntary disclosure; asymmetric price reaction; price non-monotonicity; probability of disclosure

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G12

Suggested Citation:

Libgober, Jonathan and Michaeli, Beatrice and Wiedman, Elyashiv, With a Grain of Salt: Uncertain Veracity of External News and Firm Disclosures (January 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4422628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4422628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,284
RANK
271,899
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies