Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Team Incentives for Productively Heterogenous Agents

33 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023 Last revised: 10 Jul 2023

Jonathan C. Glover

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Eunhee Kim

CUNY Baruch College

Date Written: May 1, 2023

Abstract

We study a contract design problem between a principal and a team of two productively heterogenous agents who can mutually monitor each other’s actions over an infinite horizon. The principal designs the explicit contract to set the stage for the agents to use implicit contracts to motivate each other—to foster cooperation while preventing collusion. Under a productive complementarity, the results are qualitatively similar to those from previous models with productively homogenous agents. In contrast, under a productive substitutability, productive heterogeneity increases the principal’s cost of creating cooperative incentives for intermediate discount factors and reduces the principal’s cost of combatting collusion for high discount factors. For intermediate discount factors, an extra constraint is needed to ensure the stage game equilibria are sufficiently rich that the less productive agent can be punished for free riding. As a result, the less productive agent’s pay is independent of the discount factor in this region. For high discount factors, collusion is a pressing concern. In this case, it is optimal to provide higher-powered collusion-proof pay (which is increasing in the discount factor) to the more productive agent and lower-powered cooperative pay (which is decreasing in the discount factor) to the less productive agent.

Keywords: productive heterogeneity, mutual monitoring, cooperation, collusion, team incentives

JEL Classification: C73, D86, J30

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Jonathan C. and Kim, Eunhee, Optimal Team Incentives for Productively Heterogenous Agents (May 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4433792 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4433792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
D Abreu , D Pearce , E Stacchetti
Optimal cartel equilibria with imperfect monitoring
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 251 - 269 Posted: 1986
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover
Teams, repeated tasks, and implicit incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 30 Posted: 1997
T Baldenius , J Glover , H Xue
Relational contracts with and between agents
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , issue 2-3 , p. 369 - 390 Posted: 2016
D Barron , Y Guo
The use and misuse of coordinated punishments
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 136 , issue 1 , p. 471 - 504 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
733
RANK
601,090
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies