Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Value of Demographic Diversity in Teams

forthcoming in Management Science

86 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023 Last revised: 17 Feb 2025

Jonathan C. Glover

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Eunhee Kim

CUNY Baruch College

Date Written: May 1, 2023

Abstract

We study optimal team design (homogenous vs. diverse assignment) and explicit contracting in a setting with multiple agents who have possibly diverse demographic characteristics captured by their discount factors. When the agents have relatively small discount factors, the contract is designed to foster cooperation. In this case, either team assignment is irrelevant or homogenous assignment is optimal. The reason that homogenous assignment can be optimal is that diverse assignment complicates the provision of punishments used to deter free-riding. When the agents have relatively large discount factors, the contract is designed to prevent tacit collusion while motivating cooperation. In this case, diversity in the agents’ implicit incentives creates a latent benefit: the principal targets the less patient agent with higher-powered incentives to combat collusion, while the more patient agent is induced to cooperate using lower-powered incentives. We also study optimal workforce design (all patient, all impatient, or a mix of patient and impatient employees) by allowing the principal to choose discount factors of her employees and identify conditions under which each type of workforce is optimal.

Keywords: demographic diversity, mutual monitoring, cooperation, collusion, asymmetric contracting, team composition

JEL Classification: C73, D86, J30, J82, M14

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Jonathan C. and Kim, Eunhee, On the Value of Demographic Diversity in Teams (May 1, 2023). forthcoming in Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4433789 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4433789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
722
RANK
436,820
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies