Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Greenhouse Gas Emissions: What are the Costs and Benefits?

49 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023 Last revised: 6 Mar 2025

Lucas Mahieux

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Haresh Sapra

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: March 05, 2025

Abstract

We adopt a financial-materiality approach in studying the costs and benefits of measuring Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Production by firms internally generates direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 emissions) while outsourcing to suppliers generates indirect emissions (Scope 3 emissions). Our analysis incorporates two frictions: 1) long-term negative environmental externalities caused by emissions, and 2) fragmentation in regulating emissions disclosures across jurisdictions. We show firms' failure to internalize the environmental externalities provides a rationale for mandating Scopes 1 and 3 emissions disclosures. However, such disclosures induce emissions leakage. Disciplining emissions leakage calls for setting complementary-rather than independent-disclosure requirements for Scopes 1 and 3 emissions. Our analysis underscores the importance of improving the reliability of Scope 3 emissions measurements given that measurements of Scope 1 emissions are highly reliable for public firms in Europe and the United States. Regulators can further enhance the disciplinary effects of Scope 3 emissions measurements by requiring the allocations of Scope 3 emissions in supply chains to individual firms, especially when allocating Scope 3 emissions is more reliable, and for firms/industries that are more prone to transition climate risk relative to physical climate risk.

Keywords: Climate-Related Disclosures, Climate Risks, Physical Risk, Transition Risk, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Direct and Indirect Emissions, Market Discipline, Real Effects, Scope 3 Emissions, Scope 1 Emissions, Financial Materiality, Environmental Externalities

JEL Classification: D21, D53, D61, D62, G12, G18, G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mahieux, Lucas and Sapra, Haresh and Zhang, Gaoqing,
Measuring Greenhouse Gas Emissions: What are the Costs and Benefits?
(March 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4507526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4507526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
759
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,460
RANK
76,233
4 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies