Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure, Activist Communication and Intervention

64 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2023 Last revised: 28 Jul 2023

Xue Jia

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Rahul Menon

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

Besides hostile intervention, activist shareholders aiming to make changes in target firms
also use more friendly approaches such as communicating with the firm management. Managers
can strategically influence activist shareholders’ perception about the firm and therefore their
choice of engagement. This paper analyses how a manager’s voluntary disclosure strategy affects
an activist shareholder’s strategic choice of engaging with the firm either via communication or
through direct intervention. The manager prefers to withhold information when it induces more
communication from the shareholder. We find that depending on the threat of intervention,
the manager can choose to never disclose his private information, or only disclose good news
and withhold bad news to the shareholder. The full nondisclosure and the partial disclosure
equilibria are sustained in our setting in the absence of any direct disclosure frictions. Further
analysis shows that although nondisclosing firms are more likely to be targeted by the activist,
they are likely to experience more friendly communication but less hostile intervention from
the activist shareholder relative to disclosing firms. This provides a potential explanation on
why firms choose to withhold information in the presence of potential engagement from activist
shareholders.

Keywords: Activist shareholder, Intervention, Voluntary Disclosure, Shareholder Communication

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Xue and Menon, Rahul, Voluntary Disclosure, Activist Communication and Intervention (June 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4516350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4516350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A L Aiken , C Lee
Let's talk sooner rather than later: The strategic communication decisions of activist blockholders
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
L A Bebchuk , A Brav , W Jiang , T Keusch
Dancing with activists
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 137 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2020
A Beyer , I Guttman
Voluntary disclosure, manipulation, and real effects
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1141 - 1177 Posted: 2012
T Bourveau , J Schoenfeld
Shareholder activism and voluntary disclosure
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 1307 - 1339 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
617
RANK
568,026
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies