Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Audit Risk Disclosure Improve or Impair Audit Quality and Investment Efficiency?

43 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2023 Last revised: 23 Mar 2025

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Tong Lu

University of Houston

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Date Written: May 23, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of mandatory audit risk disclosure on audit quality and investment efficiency. We find that the very act of forcing auditors to divulge their private knowledge may sabotage the genesis of that knowledge in the first place. Specifically, we consider a model in which the auditor makes two sequential decisions during an engagement: she first acquires information about a company’s risk of material misstatement (RMM) and then detects the potential misstatement in the corporate report. Our analysis reveals that mandating audit risk disclosure is a delicate balancing act. While improving communication to investors (the feedforward effect), the disclosure may undermine the auditor’s ex post information advantage and thus dampen her ex ante information acquisition incentive (the feedback effect). A lower information acquisition intensity reduces the auditor’s chance to fine-tune her detection risk based on her knowledge about RMM, and consequently impairs audit quality and investment efficiency. We find that mandatory audit risk disclosure impairs investment efficiency in the scenarios of good financial prospects, large variation in RMM, or high probabilities of low RMM.

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Mingcherng and Lu, Tong and Wen, Xiaoyan, Does Audit Risk Disclosure Improve or Impair Audit Quality and Investment Efficiency? (May 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4540951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4540951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,211
RANK
311,489
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies