Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation and Investment Efficiency

37 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2023 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Tong Lu

University of Houston

Lijun Ruan

New Jersey City University

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

Date Written: August 31, 2023

Abstract

We investigate how mandatory audit firm rotation (MAR) affects corporate investment efficiency. We develop a framework consisting of an auditor, a company, and an investor. The auditor makes two decisions: her attestation decision takes the form of conservatism or aggressiveness, and her choice of audit evidence precision varies across those two types of attestation. We demonstrate how the capital market price set by the investor reacts to the audited financial report and how the anticipation of the price reaction influences the company’s investment decision. We apply this framework to shed light on the effects of MAR on corporate investment efficiency. We find that (i) when MAR induces a change from auditor aggressiveness to auditor conservatism, it impairs investment efficiency for companies with good investment prospects, (ii) when auditor conservatism is in place, MAR impairs investment efficiency for all companies, and (iii) in all other cases, MAR improves investment efficiency.

Keywords: Auditor conservatism, Evidence precision, Market valuation, Investment efficiency, Mandatory rotation

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Tong and Ruan, Lijun and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva, Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation and Investment Efficiency (August 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4557424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4557424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
) Accountants , I E S B For
Handbook of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Posted: 2013
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
A Arens , R Elder , M Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2012
B Arrunada , C Paz-Ares
Mandatory rotation of company auditors: A critical examination
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
RANK
499,012
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies