Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of GHG Disclosures

42 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2023 Last revised: 2 Dec 2023

Tong Lu

University of Houston

Lijun Ruan

New Jersey City University

Yanyan Wang

Xiamen University

Lisheng Yu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the valuation and real effects of mandatory disclosure of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission costs from the perspective of “double materiality.” We consider a firm with a Cobb-Douglas production function, which combines GHG-related and non-GHG-related investments to produce short-term and long-term returns. In particular, the GHG-related investment entails short-term and long-term social costs of GHG emissions, including corporate costs and negative externalities. We demonstrate how the mandatory disclosure of the long-term costs of GHG emissions affects capital market valuations and corporate investment decisions, relative to a non-disclosure regime. The social welfare in an accounting regime hinges on three parameters: persistence of short-term investment return, ratio of productivity of GHG-related investment to productivity of non-GHG-related investment, and social cost parameter for GHG emissions. Our findings suggest that disclosing the long-term costs of GHG emissions may be detrimental to social welfare. Specifically, the non-disclosure regime induces higher social welfare for high values of those parameters.

Keywords: Greenhouse gas emissions, Externality, Double materiality, Disclosure, Real effects

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Tong and Ruan, Lijun and Wang, Yanyan and Yu, Lisheng, Real Effects of GHG Disclosures (November 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4561549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4561549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Aghamolla , An , B
Mandatory vs. voluntary ESG disclosure, efficiency, and real effects Posted: 2023
S Basu , J G Fernald
Returns to scale in U.S. production: Estimates and implications
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 249 - 283 Posted: 1997
L Bebchuk , L Stole
Do short-term objectives lead to under-or overinvestment in long-term projects?
The Journal of Finance , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 719 - 729 Posted: 1993
B Biais , A Landier
Emission caps and investment in green technologies Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
819
RANK
345,746
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies