Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Policy and Enforcement: The Role of Corporate Boards

53 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023

George Drymiotes

Texas Christian University

Zijun Liu

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Shiva Sivaramakrishnan

Rice University

Date Written: September 25, 2023

Abstract

The SEC holds corporate boards responsible for instituting proper controls to allay credibility concerns often associated with unaudited qualitative disclosures. In line with the SEC's stance on the board's role, we analyze a model in which the board (i) prescribes the firm's disclosure policy (a policy role), and (ii) chooses the extent to which it enforces compliance with the policy (a control role). The board's objective in our model is to balance profitability and a demand for information transparency from stakeholders, including shareholders, while contending with managerial incentives to inflate disclosures. We show that profitability concerns prompt a no-disclosure policy. However, the combination of profitability and transparency concerns induces the board to prescribe a pessimistic disclosure policy. Moreover, the board prefers a less pessimistic disclosure policy when it must contend with managerial incentives to inflate disclosures. Interestingly, the board exploits managerial incentives to inflate disclosures, which implies the board sometimes prefers to turn a ``blind eye'' to managerial over-reporting by being lax in enforcing compliance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Reporting Quality, Reporting Transparency, Disclosure Policy, Qualitative Disclosures, Disclosure Narrative

JEL Classification: G32, G38, L1, M41

Suggested Citation:

Drymiotes, George and Liu, Zijun and Sivaramakrishnan, Shiva, Disclosure Policy and Enforcement: The Role of Corporate Boards (September 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4583135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4583135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of economic literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
R B Adams , A N Licht , L Sagiv
Shareholders and stakeholders: How do directors decide?
Strategic Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 12 , p. 1331 - 1355 Posted: 2011
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings Management and the Revelation Principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
820
RANK
396,898
3 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies