Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Multiple Loan Contracting Under Sequential Audits and Contagion Losses

38 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2023

Anna Maria C. Menichini

Università degli Studi di Salerno; - Centre for Studies in Economics and Finance (CSEF)

peter simmons

University of York

Abstract

We propose a rationale for joint financing multiple independent projects based on the reduction of audit costs coming from endogenous random audit. The reduction holds not only when joint financing involves standard coinsurance gains, but, remarkably, also when it involves contagion losses -a succeeding project is dragged down by a failing one. This is because the benefits from endogenous audit, in which the worst outcomes are audited deterministically and the intermediate ones randomly, exceed the extra-cost due to the unnecessary verification that a successful project may undergo when jointly financed. We provide a detailed characterisation of the optimal contract, showing that debt is the optimal joint financing arrangement, and perform a comparative static analysis relating the emergence of joint financing to the transparency of accounting standards and the sequencing of verification.

Keywords: contracts, auditing, project finance, conglomerates

Suggested Citation:

Menichini, Anna Maria C. and simmons, peter, Optimal Multiple Loan Contracting Under Sequential Audits and Contagion Losses. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4591032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4591032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Audit Analytics: Audit fees survey: Understanding Audit Fees and Non-Audit Service Fees, 2013-2020, International Federation of Accountants (IFAC Posted: 2022
A Banal-Estañol , M Ottaviani , A Winton
The ‡ip side of …nancial synergies: Coinsurance versus risk contamination
Rev. Fin. Stud , volume 26 , p. 3142 - 3181 Posted: 2013
A Banal-Estañol , M Ottaviani
Separate or joint …nancing? Optimal conglomeration with bankruptcy costs Posted: 2013
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
J. Pol. Econ , volume 76 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
351
RANK
880,636
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Contracts & Commercial Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies