Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seemingly Self-sabotaging Disclosures

36 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2023 Last revised: 14 Mar 2024

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: April 11, 2024

Abstract

Firm disclosures are observed by multiple audiences with diverse interests. Recognizing this practical feature, studies have examined the “push and pull” provided by multiple recipients of the information. Understandably, studies have not examined the scenario where the pull for information from recipients is in the same direction. Presumably with aligned incentives, disclosure incentives are simply “additive.” This paper challenges this thinking. We model a firm that faces a potential entrant and an assertive employee union, so each individually incentivizes the firm to withhold good news. However, we show that their joint presence can drastically change the disclosure equilibrium: the firm may voluntarily disclose good news seemingly in self-sabotage. Such disclosures attract entry, compelling the firm to yield its monopoly position. However, by sabotaging itself, the firm sabotages the union even more. The resulting lower product market profitability for the firm implies that the union is less aggressive in its demands, leaving the firm with higher value overall.

Keywords: Entry, Voluntary Disclosure, Self-sabotage, Union

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Ramanan, Ram, Seemingly Self-sabotaging Disclosures (April 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4592972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4592972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Interacting supply chain distortions: The pricing of internal transfers and external procurement
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 3 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2007
A Arya , R N Ramanan
Voluntary disclosure in light of control concerns
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 2824 - 2850 Posted: 2021
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Oligopoly, disclosure, and earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1191 - 1214 Posted: 2010
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Competitive intelligence and disclosure
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 709 - 729 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
264,473
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies