Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Measuring Fair Values

50 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2023 Last revised: 17 Jan 2025

Verena Braun

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Robert F. Göx

University of Zurich - Managerial Accounting; University of Zurich - Faculty of Economics, Business Administration and Information Technology

Felix P. Niggemann

University of Zurich

Ulrich Schäfer

University of Vienna

Date Written: January 10, 2025

Abstract

We study how subjectivity in measuring the fair value of assets without readily available market prices affects investment efficiency. High levels of subjectivity induce overinvestment in short-term projects and underinvestment in long-term projects regardless of the initial measurement. Low levels of subjectivity always induce overinvestment if the firm initially measures assets at cost and underinvestment if it initially measures assets at fair value. Lowering the subjectivity of fair values does not necessarily improve investment efficiency. Measuring fair values repeatedly improves their information content but typically reduces investment incentives. In settings where investors cannot separate operating and investment cash flows, repeated fair value measurement can reinforce investment incentives and mitigate underinvestment.

Keywords: real effects, fair value, accounting measurement, subjectivity

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Braun, Verena and Goex, Robert F. and Niggemann, Felix P. and Schäfer, Ulrich, Real Effects of Measuring Fair Values (January 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4627319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
N Amornsiripanitch , Z Huang , D Kwon , J Lin
Net income measurement, investor inattention, and firm decisions Posted: 2022
L Bebchuk , L Stole
Do short-term objectives lead to under-or overinvestment in long-term projects
Journal of Finance , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 719 - 729 Posted: 1993
G J Benston
The shortcomings of fair-value accounting described in SFAS 157
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 114 Posted: 2008
K Becker , J Bischof , H Daske
IFRS: Markets, practice, and politics
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 15 , issue 1-2 , p. 1 - 262 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
339,258
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies