Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forward-Looking Loan Loss Provisioning Under Imperfect Forecasts

79 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Hristiana Vidinova

The University of Texas at Austin, TX, USA

Date Written: October 30, 2023

Abstract

The current expected credit losses (CECL) model stipulates that loan loss provisions should be forward-looking. I document that banks increasingly rely on macroeconomic forecasts following the implementation of CECL, yet most forecasts are not rational. I build a theoretical model to study the implications of CECL for bank provisions, lending, aggregate output in the economy, and bank stability. Additionally, I derive the optimal minimum capital requirement within the CECL framework. I first explore the implications under rational expectations and then consider bank expectations influenced by Kahneman and Tversky's (1972) representativeness heuristic to capture the empirical properties of macroeconomic forecasts. My model demonstrates that the representativeness heuristic results in overreaction to news, leading to underprovisioning, excessive lending and risk-taking in reaction to good news, and the opposite in reaction to bad news. Due to timely loan loss provisioning under CECL, the optimal capital constraint is time-varying in response to the macroeconomic conditions and the underlying risk in the economy. In contrast to rational expectations, the representativeness heuristic necessitates a binding capital constraint even when bank equity is high and the social cost of bank failure is low.

Keywords: Expected Credit Losses, CECL, Macroeconomic Forecasts, Bank Accounting, Capital requirements, Accounting Provisions, Loan Loss Provisioning, Banking Regulation, Real Effects

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G41, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Vidinova, Hristiana, Forward-Looking Loan Loss Provisioning Under Imperfect Forecasts (October 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4628656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4628656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
J Abad , J Suarez
Assessing the procyclicality of expected credit loss provisions
DP , volume 13135 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
H Afrouzi , S Y Kwon , A Landier , Y Ma , D Thesmar
Overreaction in expectations: Evidence and theory
The Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 2023
J M Barrero
The micro and macro of managerial beliefs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 2 , p. 640 - 667 Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
João Granja , Fabian Nagel
Current Expected Credit Losses and consumer loans
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 101781 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,171
RANK
268,675
1 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies