Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Information-based Theory of Auditor Switching

51 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Jing Li

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Mingcherng Deng

City University of New York (CUNY) - Baruch College

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: November 16, 2023

Abstract

We model auditor switching via a tender process involving an incumbent auditor, who possesses private information about a client firm's audit cost, and an uninformed outside auditor. When a firm's audit cost is high, the auditor is more susceptible to an audit failure, incorrectly attesting to the firm's favorable report. We show that in equilibrium, high-cost firms are more prone to switching to the outside auditor due to the winner's curse, especially after receiving an unfavorable audited report. Subsequently, after an auditor switch, the firm expects to have a lower audit fee and a high probability of receiving favorable audited reports from the outside auditor. These combined results align with empirical findings commonly interpreted as evidence supporting "opinion shopping," despite our model lacking such an incentive. We recommend that researchers examine opinion shopping with caution, taking into account the potential influence of information asymmetry among auditors on auditor switching.

Keywords: Audit tender, Auditor switching, Opinion shopping

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jing and Deng, Mingcherng and Zhou, Nan, An Information-based Theory of Auditor Switching (November 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4634547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4634547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
D R Ayres , T L Neal , L C Reid , J E Shipman
Auditing goodwill in the post-amortization era: Challenges for auditors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 107 Posted: 2019
T Baldenius , M Deng , J Li
Accounting information and risk shifting with asymmetrically informed creditors
Journal of Accounting and Economics forthcoming Posted: 2023
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Audit market competition: auditor changes and the impact of tendering
The British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 261 - 289 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
439,204
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies