Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory reporting frequency, informed trading, and corporate myopia

62 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2023

Hwa Young Kim

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Date Written: April 11, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between mandatory reporting frequency and corporate myopia in the presence of informed trading. While previous studies attribute myopia to frequent reporting, the empirical evidence of this claim is inconsistent. The results herein show that corporate myopia can be sustained under both frequent and infrequent reporting regimes. I also demonstrate that the level of myopia can even increase as mandatory reporting frequency decreases when the level of reporting noise is sufficiently high, because less frequent reporting induces more informed trading. The results are robust to extensions, including dynamic trading, different information structures, voluntary disclosure, or an alternative market structure. Overall, the results offer potential explanations for the mixed empirical findings regarding the relationship between mandatory reporting frequency and corporate myopia. Additionally, this study highlights that more frequent reporting does not always exacerbate corporate short-termism in the presence of alternative information sources.

Keywords: Quarterly reporting, reporting frequency, corporate myopia, short-termism, informed trading

JEL Classification: G10, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Hwa Young, Mandatory reporting frequency, informed trading, and corporate myopia (April 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4648847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4648847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M Butler , A Kraft , I S Weiss
The eect of reporting frequency on the timeliness of earnings: The cases of voluntary and mandatory interim reports
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2007
A C Call , S Chen , B Miao , Y H Tong
Short-term earnings guidance and accrual-based earnings management
Review of accounting studies , volume 19 , issue 2 Posted: 2014
S Chen , K Huang , B Lao
Is earnings guidance associated with less rm innovation? Available at SSRN 2546827 Posted: 2015
M Cheng , K Subramanyam , Y Zhang
Earnings guidance and managerial myopia. Available at SSRN 851545 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
671
RANK
461,853
2 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies