Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Avoidance, Firm Size, and Capital Misallocation

72 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2024

Brent Glover

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Oliver Levine

University of Wisconsin - Madison - Department of Finance

Date Written: June 5, 2023

Abstract

We develop a general equilibrium model to study how corporate tax avoidance affects firm policies and aggregate outcomes. Tax avoidance and investment are complementary inputs, leading the largest firms to engage in the most avoidance and face the lowest effective tax rates, consistent with the data. We find that tax avoidance significantly increases both the average firm size and concentration, disproportionately benefiting large firms. Tax avoidance also generates capital misallocation, lowering productive efficiency and welfare. We estimate the model to quantify the costs and benefits of tax avoidance and evaluate the equilibrium effects of changes to the statutory tax rate and costs of avoidance.

Keywords: Corporate tax avoidance; Misallocation; Industry concentration; Corporate taxation; Corporate investment

JEL Classification: D24, E22, G31, G38, H21, H25, H26, L11, L16, L25, O47

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Brent and Levine, Oliver, Corporate Tax Avoidance, Firm Size, and Capital Misallocation (June 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4699638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4699638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Heads I win, tails you lose: Asymmetric taxes, risk taking, and innovation
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 105 , p. 24 - 40 Posted: 2019
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Foreign investment of us multinationals: the effect of tax policy and agency conflicts
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2021
D Autor , D Dorn , L F Katz , C Patterson , J Van Reenen
The fall of the labor share and the rise of superstar firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 135 , p. 645 - 709 Posted: 2020
S R Baker , S T Sun , C Yannelis
Corporate Taxes and Retail Prices Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,746
RANK
212,316
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies