Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Compensation and Investment Efficiency

55 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2024 Last revised: 19 Sep 2025

Martin Gregor

Charles University, Prague

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: January 06, 2022

Abstract

We study how board compensation shapes investment and implementation efficiency when both a CEO and a board actively contribute to project selection and execution. In our model, the CEO strategically acquires information about a project's profitability, the board holds authority to approve it, and both parties exert non-contractible effort that jointly influences the outcome. Shareholders offer optimal contracts that endogenously induce one of three governance regimes, each resolving the trade-off between agency costs, investment inefficiency, and implementation frictions in a distinct way. In the alignment regime, the CEO is incentivized to screen and execute projects, achieving investment efficiency at the cost of CEO rents. In the monitoring regime, the board enforces discipline, eliminating CEO rents but tolerating overinvestment. In the hybrid regime, the CEO earns a high bonus upon successful execution, which indirectly encourages screening and yields investment efficiency - but at the cost of implementation inefficiency due to team moral hazard. By jointly determining contracts for CEOs and boards, our framework generates predictions about investment efficiency, the endogenous role of boards, and the emergence of distinct governance forms.

Suggested Citation:

Gregor, Martin and Michaeli, Beatrice, Board Compensation and Investment Efficiency (January 06, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4717755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4717755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Renée Adams , Ali Akyol , Patrick Verwijmeren
Director skill sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , issue 3 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
Renée B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 383 - 406 Posted: 2007
Philippe Aghion , Jean Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Rick Antle , Gary D Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,044
RANK
304,916
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies