Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whistleblowing and Internal Communication

47 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Ronghuo Zheng

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we investigate how incentives provided by whistleblowing programs affect the likelihood of whistleblowing, firm value, and social welfare in the presence of endogenous internal communication. Specifically, we focus on a myopic manager’s ex-post decision on internal communication with the employee when the manager withholds defect information from the public. An informed employee plays a dual role: working to fix the defect internally or acting as a whistleblower to expose the manager’s misconduct. We find that when the whistleblowing reward is relatively small, providing stronger incentives increases the likelihood of whistleblowing and can help improve firm value and social welfare. However, once rewards become excessively large and compromise internal communication, contrary to conventional wisdom, the likelihood of whistleblowing declines, and both firm value and social welfare decline too. We also characterize the optimal whistleblowing rewards designed by strategic regulators seeking to maximize firm value or social welfare.



Keywords: whistleblowing; information sharing; internal communication.

JEL Classification: D83, G30, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Zheng, Ronghuo, Whistleblowing and Internal Communication (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4737818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4737818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
News
New consumer warning on strollers due to entrapment risk, 1 death reported , p. 2025 - 2028 Posted: 2023
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
News
FDA took months to react to complaint about abbott infant formula factory, audit finds , p. 2025 - 2028 Posted: 2024
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
763
RANK
342,507
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies