Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whistleblowing and Information System Design

52 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2024 Last revised: 13 May 2025

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Lin Qiu

Purdue University

Ronghuo Zheng

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: February 29, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines how whistleblowing incentives shape a firm's internal information system design. We study a model in which a manager designs an information system ex ante that generates early warnings of defects, and the manager aims to maximize the firm value.  An employee, based on early warnings, can identify and fix the defects, or can blow the whistle. Upon whistleblowing, a regulator steps in and may take corrective actions. Two types of whistleblowing endogenously arise in the model: substantiated whistleblowing is value-enhancing and boosts the employee's effort, while meritless whistleblowing triggers inefficient liquidation for firm value and crowds out the employee's effort. In particular,  with a sufficiently large whistleblowing reward, we find that when the prior belief of defect is weak, the manager chooses an information system with a pessimistic bias to maximize firm value. In contrast, when the prior belief is strong, the optimal information system features an optimistic bias. We also show that firm value and social welfare can change non-monotonically with the whistleblowing incentives provided by whistleblowing programs. In particular, very strong whistleblowing incentives may lower both the expected firm value and the social welfare.

Keywords: whistleblowing; information system design.

JEL Classification: D83, G30, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Qiu, Lin and Zheng, Ronghuo, Whistleblowing and Information System Design (February 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4743421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4743421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
T Baldenius , N Melumad , X Meng
Board composition and CEO power
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 112 , p. 53 - 68 Posted: 2014
T Baldenius , X Meng , L Qiu
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
RANK
339,258
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies