Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation and Financial Disclosure

65 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Pierre Jinghong Liang

Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University

Evgeny Petrov

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: April 4, 2024

Abstract

We examine how financial disclosure policy affects a firm manager's strategy to innovate within a two-period bandit problem featuring two production methods: an old method with a known probability of success, and a new method with an unknown probability. Exploring the new method in the first period provides the manager with decision-useful information for the second period, thus creating a real option that is unavailable under exploiting the old known production method. Voluntary disclosure of the firm's financial performance provides the manager with another option to potentially conceal initial failure from the market. The interaction of these two options determines the manager's incentive to explore. In equilibrium, a myopic manager who cares about the interim market price may over- or under-explore compared to the optimal exploration strategy that maximizes firm value. Our analysis shows that firms operating in an environment with voluntary disclosure early in the trial stage and mandated requirement later are most motivated to explore, while firms subject to early mandated disclosure and late voluntary disclosure are least likely to do so. We also provide empirical predictions about the link between the disclosure environment and the intensity and efficiency of corporate innovation.

Keywords: Innovation, bandit problem, exploration and exploitation, voluntary disclosure, real option, disclosure option

JEL Classification: D82, O30, O31, O32, O33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Liang, Pierre Jinghong and Petrov, Evgeny, Innovation and Financial Disclosure (April 4, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4784334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4784334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
C Aghamolla , B An
Mandatory vs. Voluntary ESG Disclosure, Efficiency, and Real Effects Posted: 2023
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings Management and the Revelation Principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
T Baldenius , L Yang
Innovation in Firms: Experimentation and Strategic Communication Posted: 2023
E Ben-Porath , E Dekel , B Lipman
Disclosure and choice. Review of Economic Studies , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 1471 - 1501 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
929
RANK
472,791
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies