Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Team Design and its Implications for Competition and Disclosure

41 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2024

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: April 26, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines how the composition of product market managerial teams impacts the information and competitive landscapes in which firms operate. Specifically, greater team heterogeneity improves the likelihood that the firm privately learns market demand. However, this also accentuates adverse selection concerns, which leads the firm’s rival to counter by becoming more aggressive in competition. This, in turn, forces the firm to cede some of its information advantage through disclosures. In effect, when designing teams to manage information, the firm must balance its learning needs with its rival’s competitive threats. This balancing act implies that increased knowledge and learning by the firm is not always desirable, and its desirability depends critically on the degree of competition the firm encounters. Consequently, greater learning and, by extension, heterogeneous managerial teams are only optimal for the firm when product market competition is not fierce. Additionally, any inherent heterogeneity in the product markets in which the firm operates diminishes the demand for team heterogeneity.

Keywords: Competition, Coordination, Learning, Team Design, Voluntary Disclosure

JEL Classification: D82, L13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Ramanan, Ram, Team Design and its Implications for Competition and Disclosure (April 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4808273 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4808273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Arya , N Gong , R N Ramanan
Quality testing and product rationing by input suppliers , volume 23 , p. 1835 - 1844 Posted: 2014
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Project assignments when budget padding taints resource allocation
Management Science , volume 52 , issue 9 , p. 1345 - 1358 Posted: 2006
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N Ramanan
Synergy between accounting disclosures and forward-looking information in stock prices
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2017
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Competitive intelligence and disclosure
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 709 - 729 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
517,938
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies