Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Policy Interventions for Audit Quality Improvement: Market Competition Versus Audit Firm Separation

19 Pages Posted: 13 May 2024

Chiaki Kawabata

Chuo University - Faculty of Commerce

Tsuyoshi Takahara

School of Economics, Senshu University

Date Written: May 10, 2024

Abstract

We consider an environment wherein a multidisciplinary firm providing audit (AS) and non-audit services (NAS) competes with an AS-specialty firm and a NAS-specialty firm, and show how we should intervene in the markets for AS quality improvement. We assume that the multidisciplinary firm faces the service provision restriction: it cannot provide the NAS to the clients who purchase its AS and maximize the total profit (centralized decision). We find that policies which intensify competition do not necessarily improve and may rather reduce the AS quality since such policies incentivize the multidisciplinary audit firm to earn profits in the NAS market by moving away from competing in the AS market. Moreover, the multidisciplinary firm's separation is the most effective policy for AS quality improvement, as it allows the service provider to avoid the service provision constraint and delegate their decision in audit quality.

Keywords: Separation of Multidisciplinary Firm, Hotelling Model, Audit Service Competition

JEL Classification: M42, L51, G34

Suggested Citation:

Kawabata, Chiaki and Takahara, Tsuyoshi, Evaluating Policy Interventions for Audit Quality Improvement: Market Competition Versus Audit Firm Separation (May 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4823598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4823598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Philippe Aghion , Jean Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Paul J Beck , Martin Gh Wu
Learning by doing and audit quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
Beis Beis
Restoring trust in audit and corporate governance, Consultation on the government's proposals 2021
Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy
Beis Beis
Restoring trust in audit and corporate governance; Government response to the consultation on strengthening the UK's audit, corporate reporting and corporate governance systems 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
471
RANK
640,233
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies