Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
NGO Competition and the Disclosure of Cost Information

31 Pages Posted: 17 May 2024

Michael Kopel

University of Graz

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) compete in the market for donations through fundraising activities. Commonly, NGOs are hesitant to disclose their fixed costs. In line with research in accounting and economics on disclosure, this paper asks if NGOs that engage in fundraising activities to elicit donations have strategic reasons (not) to disclose information about their fixed costs to rival NGOs. Investigating the voluntary (ex ante) disclosure policies of competing NGOs, I find that the optimal disclosure policy strongly depends on information spillovers, fundraising spillovers, and the donors' assessment of their donations to the two NGOs' projects. If donors perceive their donations as strong substitutes or if fixed cost information of one NGO is not too informative about the rival NGO's fixed costs, then disclosure is a dominant strategy for NGOs. This equilibrium choice of disclosure policies also maximizes welfare in the majority of cases. If donors perceive their donations as weak substitutes or complements and fixed cost information of one NGO is sufficiently informative about the rival NGO's fixed cost (i.e., the correlation between the cost signals is sufficiently high), then a no disclosure policy is adopted in equilibrium. In this situation, the no disclosure choices maximize welfare if the correlation between cost signals is
sufficiently high, but not too high. Since welfare is maximized in the majority of cases if disclosure decisions are delegated to the competing NGOs, interventions of a regulatory authority would either be moot or decrease welfare.

Keywords: Nongovernmental organization, Fundraising competition, Disclosure, Cost information

Suggested Citation:

Kopel, Michael, NGO Competition and the Disclosure of Cost Information (May 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4828974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4828974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
and Management , volume 40 , p. 1 - 12
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Donor Reliance on Accounting and its Consequences for the Charitable Distribution Channel , volume 25 , p. 1319 - 1331 Posted: 2016
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R N Ramanan
Beyond Pro…ts: The Rise of Dual-Purpose Organizations and Its Consequences for Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 43 Posted: 2019
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Competitive Intelligence and Disclosure
Rand Journal of Economics , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 709 - 729 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
517,938
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies