Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Measure Skewness and the Structure of CEO Compensation: Theory and Evidence

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2024

Pierre Chaigneau

Queen's University; Queen’s University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Woo-Jin Chang

EM Lyon (Ecole de Management de Lyon) - Emlyon Business School

Stephen A. Hillegeist

Arizona State University (ASU) - W. P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 2024

Abstract

While research has analyzed how the structure of incentive pay relates to the dispersion of the performance measure distribution, as measured by its variance or volatility, we examine how it relates to the asymmetry of the distribution, as measured by its skewness. In contrast to the variance, skewness affects the relative informativeness of high and low performance about the agent’s effort, which determines the relative efficiency of providing rewards and punishments for incentive purposes. Therefore, skewness is an important determinant of compensation convexity, which is determined by the relative holdings of stock and options. Consistent with our analytical and numerical results, we find that the skewness of expected earnings is negatively associated with the convexity of CEO compensation. Our results are economically significant, robust to alternative specifications, and do not appear to be driven by reverse causality. In addition, we find that earnings skewness is negatively associated with total CEO compensation and that this association is driven by lower options-based compensation. These findings are consistent with CEOs preferring positively skewed performance metrics. Overall, we provide theoretical, numerical, and empirical evidence suggesting that skewness is a more important determinant of the convexity and structure of CEO compensation than volatility.

Keywords: Performance measure skewness, compensation convexity, CEO compensation, CEO incentives

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M52, M55

Suggested Citation:

Chaigneau, Pierre and Chang, Woo-Jin and Hillegeist, Stephen A., Performance Measure Skewness and the Structure of CEO Compensation: Theory and Evidence (April 2024). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The Other Side of the Tradeoff: The Impact of Risk on Executive Compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 108 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
D Amaya , P Christoffersen , K Jacobs , A Vasquez
Does realized skewness predict the cross-section of equity returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 118 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 167 Posted: 2015
T Astebro , J Mata , L Santos-Pinto
Skewness Seeking: Risk Loving, Optimism or Overweighting of Small Probabilities?
Theory and Decision , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 189 - 208 Posted: 2015
T G Bali , S Murray
Does Risk-Neutral Skewness Predict the Cross-Section of Equity Option Portfolio Returns?
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 1145 - 1171 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,383
RANK
357,435
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies