Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Macroeconomic Implications of Accounting Standards

39 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2024

Hyun Hwang

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Eunhee Kim

CUNY Baruch College

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 06, 2024

Abstract

We study the effects of biased accounting standards in a setting in which the rate of return on investor capital is determined by the supply and demand for capital. In our model, entrepreneurs expend effort to discover new projects and issue financial reports about the projects' prospects. Investors rely on these reports to choose the amount of capital to invest, and the equilibrium market rate balances the entrepreneurs' capital demand with the investors' capital supply. We show that biases in accounting standards affect not only the information content of accounting reports, potentially leading to inefficient investments, but also the supply and demand for capital, influencing the equilibrium rate of return. The rate of return determines how the total surplus is shared between entrepreneurs and investors and hence affects entrepreneurs' incentives to innovate. We find that conservative standards can foster innovation and increase aggregate entrepreneur welfare by reducing the equilibrium rate of return. Conversely, liberal accounting standards can increase the equilibrium rate of return, making investors better off, at the potential cost of less innovation.

Keywords: accounting standards, reporting biases, supply and demand for capital, welfare, innovation, market rate of return JEL Classification: D82

Suggested Citation:

Hwang, Hyun and Kim, Eunhee and Laux, Volker, Macroeconomic Implications of Accounting Standards (June 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4856851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4856851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R Ball
By what criteria do we evaluate accounting? Some thoughts on economic welfare and the archival literature
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 54 Posted: 2024
R Barro , X Sala-I-Martin
Economic Growth Posted: 1995
J Benhabib , M M Spiegel
The role of human capital in economic development evidence from aggregate cross-country data
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 173 Posted: 1994
J Bertomeu , E Cheynel
Toward a general equilibrium theory of financial reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 1521 - 1544 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
792
RANK
521,283
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies