Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting as Religion

Accounting and Auditing Studies, 11(42), 93-110. doi: 10.22034/iaas.2022.156498

Posted: 8 Jul 2024

Payam Noori Doabi

Science and Research Branch of Islamic Azad University

Ghodratallah Talebnia

Science and Research Branch of Islamic Azad University

Date Written: July 01, 2022

Abstract

Religion and faith have always supported morality, honesty, justice, responsibility and accountability in all societies and nations of the world, and have determined and explained the ideology, worldview, actions and behavior of human beings at all levels and patterns of life. Necessity and purpose of life and human need for excellence and achievement of human development and self-have led to religion as one of the most important cultural pillars and lifestyle, determining the laws, principles, frameworks and policies of human beings in various economic fields, be social and political. In this regard, accounting as a knowledge of this field, which is influenced by the environment and culture, has not been much considered by researchers. Therefore, this article aims to identify and understand the philosophy and nature of accounting using a descriptive approach and based on the citation method and library, and by looking at religion and its position, explains accounting as a religion; And shows that accounting originates from the source of religious beliefs and the worldview of material and spiritual; Until, as a profession with a ritual of professional behavior, based on values and beliefs and with the aim of serving and responding to society in the direction of God-given blessings and power of thought and will, authority by recording and documenting actions and events to help It has emerged with the right choice and decision of man. 

Suggested Citation:

Noori Doabi, Payam and Talebnia, Ghodratallah, Accounting as Religion (July 01, 2022). Accounting and Auditing Studies, 11(42), 93-110. doi: 10.22034/iaas.2022.156498, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4856553
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
295
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies