Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hold-Up, Relational Contracting, and Reporting Bias

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 4867101

67 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Hao Xue

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Jonathan C. Glover

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Wei Li

University of Washington-Bothell; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 15, 2024

Abstract

A problem that arises in buyer-supplier relationships is that a supplier may be reluctant to undertake costly up-front innovations fearing he will be held up at the time of price negotiations with the buyer. In our model of a repeated hold-up problem, trust that emerges between the buyer and supplier leads the buyer to employ a relational contract to mitigate the hold-up problem. The optimal relational contract has the buyer rewarding the supplier both directly with discretionary payments and indirectly via information. Trust facilitates both larger discretionary rewards and the use of an information system that creates a larger information asymmetry between the buyer and the supplier in order to provide the supplier with greater information rents and, hence, greater incentives for innovation. The optimal information system is downward-biased: the supplier's profitability is sometimes under-reported but is never over-reported. While the optimal information system's informativeness is always decreasing in the discount factor (which captures the relational focus), its bias may be increasing, decreasing, or non-monotonic in the discount factor, depending on the relative efficiency of direct rewards vs. information rents in motivating innovation.

Keywords: Innovation, Hold-up, Information design, Relational contracting

Suggested Citation:

Xue, Hao and Glover, Jonathan C. and Li, Wei, Hold-Up, Relational Contracting, and Reporting Bias (June 15, 2024). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 4867101, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867101 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4867101
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
R Antle , J Fellingham
Information rents and preferences among information systems in a model of resource allocation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 41 - 58 Posted: 1995
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital budgeting, the hold-up problem, and information system design
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between decision and control problems and the value of information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
745
RANK
401,016
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies