Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government procurement contracts, external audit certification, and financing of small-and medium-sized enterprises

69 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024

Frederick Kibon Changwony

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Kelvin Kinyua

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kevin Campbell

University of Stirling - Stirling Management School

Date Written: March 01, 2023

Abstract

Entrepreneurs worldwide often face obstacles in financing their businesses, hindering their ability to grow. Government procurement offers an opportunity to access lucrative contracts and benefit from a procurement auditing process that could enhance access to finance. Likewise, externally audited financial statements can enhance credibility and lessen financing hurdles. We examine whether government procurement contracts and external audit certifications jointly influence financing access and whether ownership, size, and firm age matter. We find that access to finance is more likely to be an obstacle to the operations of small-and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with government procurement contracts than those without such contracts, regardless of whether they seek external audit certification. Additionally, the effect of external audit certification

Keywords: External audit, Government contracts, Small and medium-sized enterprises, Access to financing, World Bank Enterprise Survey JEL Classification D25, H57, L21, L26, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Changwony, Frederick Kibon and Kinyua, Kelvin and Campbell, Kevin, Government procurement contracts, external audit certification, and financing of small-and medium-sized enterprises (March 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4885047 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4885047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 32 - 36 Posted: 2003
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: An Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements by Privately Held Small Businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
D Aristei , M Gallo
Does gender matter for firms' access to credit? Evidence from international data
Finance Research Letters , volume 18 , p. 67 - 75 Posted: 2016
I Arráiz , M Meléndez , R Stucchi
Partial credit guarantees and firm performance: Evidence from Colombia
Small Business Economics , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 711 - 724 Posted: 2014
Load more
2 Citations
Bastian Krieger , Lena Füner , Malte Prüfer
Which Start-Ups Win Public Procurement Tenders?
ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 24-072 · 43 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Frederick Kibon Changwony , Naomi Chepkorir Koske , Joel Kiplagat Tuwey
The Effect of Decentralisation Reforms on Household Financial Well-Being: Quasi-Experiment Evidence from Kenya
RSUE-D-24-00368 · 46 Pages · Posted: 16 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
2 Citations
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies