Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregate disclosure incentives: the role of supply market investments

45 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2024

Tyler Atanasov

Purdue University

Rahul Menon

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Date Written: July 22, 2024

Abstract

This study expands our understanding of firms' incentives to disclose aggregate information. In the standard product and supply market setting, firms prefer to provide detailed information or make no disclosure. This paper finds that the confluence of product market competition and supply market investments results in ex-ante preferences for aggregate disclosures. Firm disclosures encourage supply market investments. Supply market decisions are made at the firm compared to the product level, implying that aggregate disclosures are sufficient for the supplier's decision while obfuscating information from rivals. The results highlight the varying informational needs of external parties and how those varied needs, in turn, influence disclosure decisions. This study provides a potential explanation for the observed prevalence of aggregate, rather than detailed, disclosures in practice.

Keywords: aggregate, competition, disclosure, investment, multi-product, supplier

Suggested Citation:

Atanasov, Tyler and Menon, Rahul, Aggregate disclosure incentives: the role of supply market investments (July 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4901820
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Arya , H Frimor , B Mittendorf
Discretionary disclosure of proprietary information in a multisegment firm
Management Science , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 645 - 658 Posted: 2010
A Arya , H Frimor , B Mittendorf , T Pfeiffer
Disclosure to competitors in light of endogenous firm investments Posted: 2024
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Input price discrimination when buyers operate in multiple markets
The Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 846 - 867 Posted: 2010
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The benefits of aggregate performance metrics in the presence of career concerns
Management Science , volume 57 , issue 8 , p. 1424 - 1437 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
453,964
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies