Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The fundamental tradeoff between the timing benefits and timing costs of accrual accounting

25 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2024

Ilia D. Dichev

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 24, 2024

Abstract

Since all accruals reverse, their effect on the recognition of income is by definition temporary and temporal. Exploring the implications of this key property, this paper argues that both the benefits and the costs of accrual accounting largely lie in the temporal domain, and that they are inextricably linked by the nature of the accrual process. For example, it is impossible to have the benefit of early accruals for long-term obligations such as pensions without the noise in income introduced by the deviation of long-term pension estimates from their corresponding realizations. Thus, the fundamental tradeoff of timing benefits and timing costs lies at the heart of accrual accounting, and critically shapes its characteristics and function. While some of these core properties of accrual accounting have been long known, this paper argues that they are not fully appreciated, and discusses a number of possible implications for standard setting and academic research.

Keywords: accruals, timing benefits, timing costs, accrual accounting

Suggested Citation:

Dichev, Ilia D., The fundamental tradeoff between the timing benefits and timing costs of accrual accounting (June 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4904522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4904522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Matthew Bloomfield , Joseph Gerakos , Andrei Kovrijnykh
Accrual reversals and cash conversion Posted: 2019
Patricia Dechow
Accounting earnings and cash flows as measures of firm performance: The role of accounting accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 18 , p. 3 - 42 Posted: 1994
Patricia Dechow , Ilia Dichev
The quality of accruals and earnings: The role of accrual estimation errors
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue S-1 , p. 35 - 59 Posted: 2002
Ilia Dichev , Edward Owens
Accrual duration, forthcoming in Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
599
RANK
407,330
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies