Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Accounting Methods and Supply Chain Efficiency




56 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2024

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Date Written: July 25, 2024

Abstract

A company's supply chain activities account for a significant portion of its environmental impact. However, the allocation of corporate emissions across the supply chain and its economic consequences remain largely unclear. In this paper, we examine the effects of three commonly discussed carbon accounting methods on companies' production and profitability within a supply chain: allocating each firm's own emissions to itself (the Scope I approach), allocating total emissions downstream as in inventory accounting (the accounting approach), and jointly allocating emissions to all firms in the supply chain (the Scope III approach). In a scale-neutral environment with linear emissions functions, all three methods result in the same production quantity and firm profits. In a scale-efficient energy environment with concave emissions functions, the firms produce more and generate more profits under the accounting approach than under the Scope I and Scope III approaches. Conversely, in a scale-inefficient energy environment with concave emissions functions, the firms produce more and earn more profits under the Scope I and Scope III approaches than under the accounting approach. In extensions, we show how the different allocation methods distinctly affect the firms' choices of green technology adoption and outsourcing decisions.

Keywords: carbon accounting, carbon allocation, energy environment, green technology, Scope I emissions, Scope III emissions, supply chain, outsourcing

Suggested Citation:

Pfeiffer, Thomas and Chen, Hui, Carbon Accounting Methods and Supply Chain Efficiency (July 25, 2024).
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4905482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
448,944
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies