Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Assessing the Integration of ChatGPT in IT Audits that Support Financial Statement Audits

15 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2024 Last revised: 30 Jan 2025

Angel R. Otero

Florida Institute of Technology - College of Business

Date Written: April 29, 2024

Abstract

Artificial intelligence (AI) has brought significant changes in many fields, including the audit sector. Generative AI, a type of AI, leverages deep learning models to generate human-like content like images and words. ChatGPT, a type of generative AI, is a language model capable of revolutionizing information technology (IT) audits in support of financial statement (FS) audits. This paper highlights and examines advantages and disadvantages of incorporating ChatGPT into IT audits that support FS audits. ChatGPT offers benefits such as efficiency, precision, and speed, which are vital in the IT audit process. However, it also comes with challenges that need to be addressed. This paper contributes to the growing body of knowledge related to the use of ChatGPT in IT audits that support FS audits. The paper further provides insights into how audit firms can effectively adopt ChatGPT to improve the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of their IT and FS audits.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, generative artificial Intelligence, ChatGPT, information technology audits, financial statement audits

Suggested Citation:

Otero, Angel R.,

Assessing the Integration of ChatGPT in IT Audits that Support Financial Statement Audits

(April 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4909057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4909057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
W M Lim , A Gunasekara , J L Pallant , J I Pallant , E Pechenkina
Generative AI and the future of education
The International Journal of Management Education , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2023
B Marr
A short history of ChatGPT: How we got to where we are today. Forbes Posted: 2023
C Fuhrer
Artificial Intelligence: What Does Recent Research Say? A Combined Bibliometric and Textual Approach
Management and Future Review , volume 137 , p. 89 - 111 Posted: 2023
L Reid
What is ChatGPT and how will it impact project management?
PM World Journal , volume 12 , issue 7 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
698
RANK
434,412
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies