Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Multifaceted World of Integrated Reporting: A Journey-through Theory

14 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2024

Ashutosh Parhi

KIIT Deemed to be University, School of Management, Students; Centurion University of Technology and Management - Department of Management

Rabi Subudhi

KIIT University - School of Management; Berhampur University; Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT); CUTM Paralakhemundi

Date Written: August 10, 2024

Abstract

This research explores the theoretical foundations of Integrated Reporting (IR)-related research and outlines potential avenues for both theoretical and empirical exploration. Specifically, it scrutinizes the key theories utilized in studies concerning IR adoption, encompassing determinants of adoption, quality and influence, as well as stakeholder perspectives and challenges. Methodologically, a systematic review of 110 pertinent papers sourced from the Scopus database forms the basis of this investigation. The findings underscore the prevalent use of agency theory, legitimacy theory, stakeholder theory, and institutional theory across the spectrum of IR adoption studies. Additionally, various other theories, such as signaling theory, diffusion of innovation theory, resource dependence theory, voluntary disclosure theory, stewardship theory, and impression management theory, are also employed in the discourse. This paper's contribution lies in its delineation of the diverse theoretical frameworks within the accounting domain, thereby offering valuable insights for theory construction. Moreover, the elucidation of these theories could prove beneficial for accounting regulators, academics, and practitioners in elucidating shifts within the accounting landscape.

Keywords: integrated reporting, institutional theory, agency theory, stakeholder theory

Suggested Citation:

Parhi, Ashutosh and Subudhi, Rabi, The Multifaceted World of Integrated Reporting: A Journey-through Theory (August 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4921778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4921778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,061
RANK
424,948
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies