Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ranking Performance Measurement Systems when People Disagree

47 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2024

Nikolaj Niebuhr Lambertsen

Aarhus University - Department of Economics and Business Economics

Morten Lund Poulsen

Aarhus University

Date Written: August 15, 2024

Abstract

Evidence suggests that people have heterogeneous beliefs about performance measurement systems, leading to disagreement in organizations. Motivated by this, we consider the ranking of performance measurement systems in a principal-agent model in which the agent and principal have heterogeneous beliefs. The ranking of performance measurement systems depends on both the agent's beliefs about their informativeness and the disagreement of beliefs between the principal and the agent. Ranking criteria are sensitive to whether the principal wants to exploit the agent, which is a question about ethics. Our model provides a new perspective on why performance measures should be designed in dialog with employees and how ethics influence performance measurement choices.

Keywords: performance measurement systems, heterogeneous beliefs, moral hazard, overconfidence JEL Classification: D86, D90, M40

Suggested Citation:

Lambertsen, Nikolaj Niebuhr and Poulsen, Morten Lund, Ranking Performance Measurement Systems when People Disagree (August 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4926666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4926666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
C Aranda , J Arellano , A Davila
Subjective bonuses and target setting in budget-based incentive contracts
Management Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 45 - 60 Posted: 2019
R D Banker , S M Datar
Sensitivity, precision, and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
L Berger , L Guo , A Presslee
Motivating employees with goal-based prosocial rewards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 231 - 256 Posted: 2023
R H Chenhall , P Brownell
The effect of participative budgeting on job satisfaction and performance: Role ambiguity as an intervening variable
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 225 - 233 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies