Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Information Acquisition, Investment, and Disclosure

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2024 Last revised: 24 Mar 2025

Seung Lee

University of Southern Denmark

Ivan Marinovic

Graduate School of Business, Stanford University

Date Written: March 30, 2024

Abstract

We present a dynamic model of information acquisition and disclosure. The manager seeks to maximize future stock prices and collects information privately about the firm’s fundamentals. Information acquisition increases the arrival rate of private information. The manager can choose to disclose his private information or withhold it in perpetuity. We study the impact of information acquisition on the accumulation of private information, disclosure, and the firm’s initial investment.

Keywords: information acquisition, investment, learning, voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Seung and Marinovic, Ivan,
Dynamic Information Acquisition, Investment, and Disclosure
(March 30, 2024). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4939966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4939966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Milton Abramowitz , Irene A Stegun
Handbook of Mathematical Functions With Formulas, Graphs, and Mathematical Tables Posted: 1964
Acharya , V Viral , Ilan Peter Demarzo , Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
Cyrus Aghamolla , Byeong-Je An
Voluntary Disclosure with Evolving News
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 140 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 53 Posted: 2021
Cyrus Aghamolla , Tadashi Hashimoto
Information Arrival, Delay, and Clustering in Financial markets with Dynamic Freeriding
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 52 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
788
RANK
508,348
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies