Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation and Welfare Impacts of Disclosure Regulation: A General Equilibrium Approach 

67 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2024

Li Azinovic-Yang

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: September 02, 2024

Abstract

I develop a general equilibrium model to examine the innovation and welfare effects of expanding mandatory financial disclosure to a broader set of firms. In the model, disclosure by relatively small firms reveals proprietary information about their local markets, which helps larger firms enter and compete. Inspired by previous empirical findings, the model incorporates the feature that mandatory disclosure encourages (discourages) innovation by larger (smaller) firms. More importantly, I identify conditions for when expanding the scope of disclosure regulation increases aggregate innovation and/or welfare. I structurally estimate the model using innovation data and plausibly exogenous variation in the extent of disclosure regulation in Europe. My estimates suggest that subjecting 15% more firms to full reporting requirements decreases aggregate innovation by around-0.26% but increases welfare by around 1%. This disparity is driven by the fact that production shifts to the larger firms that innovate less but can mass produce their innovations at scale. 

Keywords: disclosure regulation, innovation, aggregate effect

JEL Classification: D8, E1

Suggested Citation:

Azinovic-Yang, Li, Innovation and Welfare Impacts of Disclosure Regulation: A General Equilibrium Approach  (September 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4944369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4944369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Acemoglu , U Akcigit , H Alp , N Bloom , W Kerr
Innovation, reallocation, and growth
American Economic Review , volume 108 , issue 11 , p. 3450 - 3491 Posted: 2018
P Aghion , P Howitt
Endogenous growth theory , volume 1 Posted: 1997
U Akcigit , S Baslandze , Lotti , F
Connecting to power: political connections, innovation, and firm dynamics , volume 91 , p. 529 - 564 Posted: 2023
A Allen , M F Lewis-Western , K Valentine
The innovation and reporting consequences of financial regulation for young life-cycle firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 95 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
766
RANK
333,065
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies