Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Talent and Performance Targets: Theory and Evidence

52 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2024

Charlotte Li

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Korok Ray

Texas A&M University

Sarah Tschosik

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 03, 2024

Abstract

Chief executives face performance targets in their compensation contracts, which deliver bonus payouts to the CEO if their performance clears a specified target. We consider such contracts in the context of CEO talent. In a model of private information, we solve for the optimal bonus and target. First, the optimal bonus and target increase in managerial talent. Second, the optimal bonus increases in risk, in contrast to the standard risk-incentives tradeoff. Third, the optimal bonus increases in talent risk for the high-type managers but not the low-types. We test these results against data and find support for the empirical predictions.

Keywords: Executive compensation, Contracting, Performance targets, Managerial ability, Managerial talent

JEL Classification: J33, J41, M4, M12

Suggested Citation:

Li, Charlotte and Ray, Korok and Tschosik, Sarah, Managerial Talent and Performance Targets: Theory and Evidence (September 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4945943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4945943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M A Abernethy , Y F Kuang , B Qin
The Influence of CEO Power on Compensation Contract Design
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1265 - 1306 Posted: 2015
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The Other Side of the Tradeoff: The Impact of Risk on Executive Compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Ó Arnaiz , V Salas-Fumás
Performance standards and optimal incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 152 Posted: 2008
M C Arnold , M Artz
Target Difficulty, Target Flexibility, and Firm Performance: Evidence from Business Units
Targets. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 40 , p. 61 - 77 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
RANK
508,348
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies