Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discursive Legitimation in Public Tax Disclosures: The Case of UK Corporate Tax Strategy Reporting

38 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2024

Salma Ashour

University of Birmingham

Helen Rogers

Bangor University

Doris Merkl-Davies

Bangor University

Abstract

This paper examines ways in which companies construct compliance with HMRC tax strategy regulation to promote their corporate tax transparency during times of public controversy and concern over reports of multinational companies’ (MNCs’) tax avoidance behaviour. We conduct a comparative in-depth case study of the tax strategy reports of seven FTSE 100 companies (2016-2019), who incorporated a chief financial officer (CFO) statement or a chairman statement in their tax strategy reports as a means to demonstrate full engagement with HMRC tax strategy regulation. We look at the case of the first iterations of this new corporate reporting genre to identify the key themes disclosed in the companies’ tax strategy reports and to analyse the discursive legitimation strategies used to construct those themes. For this purpose, we use critical discourse analysis (CDA) which highlights the constitutive role of language in the construction of social reality. Our findings suggest that companies utilize three overarching legitimation means, namely (1) discursive antagonism, (2) discursive co-optation and (3) discursive validation to portray “a coherent and legitimate [tax] image” that appeals to a diverse group of stakeholders beyond the regulatory body. This is important because this offers insights that can help stakeholders better understand and interpret the tax strategy disclosures.

Keywords: corporate tax avoidance, Tax Strategy Reporting, Tax Transparency, Discursive Legitimation

Suggested Citation:

Ashour, Salma and Rogers, Helen and Merkl-Davies, Doris, Discursive Legitimation in Public Tax Disclosures: The Case of UK Corporate Tax Strategy Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4947083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4947083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
M Anesa , A P Spee , N Gillespie , F J Petani
Reassessing moral legitimacy in times of instability
Journal of Management Studies , volume 61 , issue 3 , p. 857 - 887 Posted: 2024
B E Ashforth , B W Gibbs
The double-edge of organizational legitimation
Organization Science , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 194 Posted: 1990
Voluntary Tax Transparency Code Posted: 2021-12-12
Aviva
Aviva Tax Strategy Posted: 2019-06-14
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
275
RANK
864,457
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies