Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Implications of a One-Size-Fits-All Deleveraging Policy from the Perspective of Operating Cash Flow Quality

61 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2024

Ji Kaiying

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xuezhi Shi

Tsinghua University - Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management

Deren Xie

Tsinghua University

Abstract

This paper examines the empirical implications of China’s one-size-fits-all deleveraging policy. Employing a difference-in-difference-in-differences estimation, we find that China’s mandatory deleveraging policy has significantly reduced the operating cash flow quality of those high-quality firms under deleveraging pressure. These firms are more likely to deleverage by reducing operating liabilities rather than financing liabilities to meet the deleveraging target. Consequently, the policy impedes high-quality firms’ operation, thereby weakening their operating cash flow quality. These findings suggest that the government should avoid a one-size-fits-all deleveraging policy and that debt heterogeneity and enterprise development quality are two critical factors worth considering.

Keywords: Mandatory deleveraging, Operating cash flow quality, Debt heterogeneity, Structural deleveraging

Suggested Citation:

Kaiying, Ji and Shi, Xuezhi and Xie, Deren, Empirical Implications of a One-Size-Fits-All Deleveraging Policy from the Perspective of Operating Cash Flow Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4948974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4948974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
G Akerlof
The market for "lemons": qualitative uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
C E Bai , C T Hsieh , Z M Song
The long shadow of a fiscal expansion
NBRE Working paper Posted: 2016
M E Barth , K Li , C Mcclure
Evolution in value relevance of accounting information
Account. Rev , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2023
P Benigno , F Romei
Debt deleveraging and the exchange rate
J. Int. Econ , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
354
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies