Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cultural challenges for countries implementing International Financial Reporting Standards without contributing to their creation

Posted: 15 Oct 2024

Khalid Rasheed Al-Adeem

King Saud University

Date Written: April 01, 2020

Abstract

One aim of globalisation is eliminating a country's uniqueness so that different parts of the world can become alike. To this effect, countries are aligning their national financial reporting standards to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to narrow their related differences, thereby creating a demand for the IFRS. Financial reporting based on a single set of financial reporting standards was expected to enhance comparability; however, this is not the case in practice. Accountants' judgements, which are allowed under the International Accounting Standard Board's principles-based standards, can be a limitation for the comparability advantage. Further, critics of the IFRS are concerned that countries adopting IFRS may lose control of their financial reporting and disclosures to foreign regulators. Finally, countries that do not contribute to IFRS creation may become recipients of other countries' inputs, such as languages, cultural values, and regulatory systems.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, harmonisation, globalisation, ideology, culture, societal accounting, global accounting

Suggested Citation:

Al-Adeem, Khalid Rasheed, Cultural challenges for countries implementing International Financial Reporting Standards without contributing to their creation (April 01, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4949398
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
180
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies