Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Financial Performance: evidence from Microfinance Institutions in Ethiopia Authors' information

28 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2024

Getahun Deribie

Haramaya University

Gashaw Habtewold

Bule Hora University

Date Written: June 22, 2023

Abstract

The issue of financial performance has received much attention of scholars because it has a substantial impact on the overall aims of the firms. The objective of this study is to examine the determinants of financial performance of microfinance institutions in Ethiopia. A panel dataset was obtained from 13 microfinance institutions which range from 2011 to 2021. The data was selected purposively based on its availability. To this end, the study adopts a quantitative research approach followed by a descriptive and explanatory research design. The study used the return on assets as a measure for financial performance. Random Effect GLS regression results revealed that leverage, number of borrowers, and portfolio at risk have a negative and significant effect on financial performance. Moreover, age, liquidity, financial self-sufficiency, operational self-sufficiency, and gross domestic product have a positive and significant effect on financial performance. As a result, the researchers concluded that both internal and external drivers influence the financial performance of microfinance institutions in Ethiopia. The study will have implications for different stakeholders, such as managers, policy makers, shareholders, etc., in that considering of the identified internal and external factors while developing their strategies to improve financial performance of microfinance institutions.

Keywords: Financial performance, Microfinance Institutions, Return on Assets, Balanced panel data, Random Effect, Ethiopia

Suggested Citation:

Deribie, Getahun and Habtewold, Gashaw, Determinants of Financial Performance: evidence from Microfinance Institutions in Ethiopia Authors' information (June 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4953525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4953525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
612
RANK
618,599
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies