Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Auditor Change Lead to Real Earnings Management? - a Study of Small and Medium-Sized Firms

32 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2024

Frode Kjærland

Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU); Nord University - Faculty of Business School

Sandra Brocks Hagen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Are Oust

NTNU Business School

Ranik Raaen Wahlstrøm

NTNU Business School, Norwegian University of Science and Technology

Abstract

This study examines the impact of auditor change on real earnings management, particularly exploring whether larger auditing firms are associated with lower occurrences of earnings management and if occurrences are higher among firms that change auditors compared to those that do not. The research focuses on activity-based earnings management and auditor change, contributing to a relatively under-researched area.Using a unique panel dataset of financial information from Norwegian small and medium-sized companies between 2011 and 2019, comprising 788,998 observations, including 33,545 related to companies with auditor change, the study conducts a comprehensive empirical analysis. A two-step procedure is employed, developing activity-based earnings management measures based on Roychowdhury's (2006) model, which are then used as dependent variables in subsequent regressions using fixed effects estimation.The findings reveal that companies changing between Big5 auditing firms exhibit higher occurrences of activity-based earnings management compared to companies that haven't changed auditors. This indicates potential differences in how large auditing firms assess financial information quality. However, the implications of other auditing changes are unclear, suggesting no significant quality differences between large (Big5) and small (non-Big5) auditing firms. In general, the study suggests that robust legal frameworks and a well-functioning legal system act as safeguards, hindering companies from executing auditor changes based on less legitimate reasons and limiting management's opportunistic behavior, which could otherwise be reflected in activity-based earnings management occurrences.

Keywords: Real earnings management, Auditor change, small and medium-sized firms

Suggested Citation:

Kjærland, Frode and Hagen, Sandra Brocks and Oust, Are and Wahlstrøm, Ranik Raaen, Does Auditor Change Lead to Real Earnings Management? - a Study of Small and Medium-Sized Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4953618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4953618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Mohammad & Alhadab , Iain Clacher
The impact of audit quality on real and accrual earnings management around IPOs
The British accounting review , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 442 - 461 Posted: 2018
Seraina C Anagnostopoulou , Andrianos E Tsekrekos
The effect of financial leverage on real and accrual-based earnings management
Accounting and business research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 236 Posted: 2017
Auditor Act
Lov om revisjon og revisorer Posted: 2020
Vivien & Beattie , Stella Fearnley
Audit market competition: Auditor changes and the impact of tendering
The British accounting review , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 261 - 289 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
747,544
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies