Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Tax Avoidance and Corporate Social Responsibility with Heterogeneous Consumers and Investors

Tuck School of Business Working Paper Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2024

Richard C. Sansing

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Carolyn Levine

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Date Written: September 10, 2024

Abstract

This study characterizes the optimal tax avoidance strategies of an industry that comprises two firms. Both consumers and investors have heterogeneous preferences over the firms’ tax avoidance strategies. The presence of consumers who care about a firm’s tax avoidance activities induce the two ex ante identical firms to choose different tax avoidance strategies. The firm that chooses the less aggressive tax avoidance strategy is able to command a price premium and earn above-normal profits. This in turn allows the more aggressive firm to price above marginal cost and also earn above-normal profits. Investors who care about the firms’ tax avoidance strategies avoid holding the stock of the more aggressive tax-avoiding firm. This increases the risk premium and thus decreases the stock price of the tax-avoiding firm.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, price competition, heterogeneous preferences, Tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G32, G33, H25

Suggested Citation:

Sansing, Richard C. and Levine, Carolyn, Optimal Tax Avoidance and Corporate Social Responsibility with Heterogeneous Consumers and Investors (September 10, 2024). Tuck School of Business Working Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4954513 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4954513
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
429
RANK
826,677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies