Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Systemic Disruptions in Supply Chains: The Roles of Dual Transparencies

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2024-184

51 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2024 Last revised: 20 Mar 2025

Chao Tang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Xin Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Business Administration

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: May 31, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates a firm's management of systemic supply chain disruption risk when its supply chain is opaque. Our analysis centers on a dual-transparency framework in which neither the systemic disruption risk nor the firm's supply chain strategies are fully transparent to outside investors. We demonstrate that, compared to first-best levels, opacity in supply chain strategies causes the firm to under-produce by ordering insufficient supplies and under-diversify by relying excessively on the more transparent supplier. Surprisingly, when the firm's supply chain strategies are highly opaque, increasing transparency about systemic disruption risk can exacerbate these inefficiencies by reducing the firm's total supply orders and resulting in further concentration of those orders, thereby harming firm value. Our analysis suggests that improving transparency regarding systemic supply chain disruption risks may have unintended consequences that interfere with the effective operation of supply chains.

Keywords: supply chain management, systemic disruption risk, climate risk, real effects

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Chao and Wang, Xin and Zhang, Gaoqing, Managing Systemic Disruptions in Supply Chains: The Roles of Dual Transparencies (May 31, 2024). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2024-184, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4955240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4955240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
C Aghamolla , B.-J An
Mandatory vs. voluntary esg disclosure, e¢ ciency, and real e¤ects Posted: 2023
K Alicke , T Foster , K Hauck , V Trautwein
Tech and regionalization bolster supply chains Posted: 2023
Accessed
Posted: 2024-06-11
A Arya , T Atanasov , B Mittendorf , D.-H Yoon
Inventory planning and tax incentives for charitable giving
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
508,348
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies