Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognition versus disclosure: The relevance of leases subsequent to IFRS 16

51 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2024 Last revised: 20 Feb 2025

Sebastian Onie

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Helen Spiropoulos

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Peter Alfred Wells

University of Technology Sydney, Accounting Discipline Group ; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates whether mandated capitalisation of leases under IFRS 16 Leases provided value relevant information to users compared to disclosures made prior to IFRS 16. Results indicate that, prior to the implementation of IFRS 16, off-balance sheet leases provided relevant information but only for firms not heavily reliant on such leases. However, following transition to IFRS 16, users found newly recognised capital leases to contain relevant information for all firms. The disparity in how earnings and book value are valued across firms with differing lease intensities also reduced post-IFRS 16. Results are robust to different pre- and post-IFRS 16 periods and to alternative variable and model specifications.

Keywords: IFRS 16, Financial Reporting Standards, Leases, Right-of-use

Suggested Citation:

Onie, Sebastian and Spiropoulos, Helen and Wells, Peter Alfred, Recognition versus disclosure: The relevance of leases subsequent to IFRS 16 (November 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4956557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4956557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,369
RANK
327,219
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies