Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Dynamic Interaction Among Cash Conversion Cycle Components and Their Antecedents in Simultaneous Equations Modeling

32 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2024

Amna Asim

Karachi University Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: September 18, 2024

Abstract

Businesses often use the Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC) to measure how efficiently they convert their investments in inventory and resources into cash, providing insight into their cash flow management effectiveness. However, past research has focused on individual components of the CCC, leaving gaps in knowledge that hinder businesses from improving their working capital management. This study aims to determine the interconnectedness of the CCC components. The sample size includes 100 non-financial firms listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange from 2010 to 2019. Endogenous variables, such as Days Inventory Outstanding (DIO), Days Receivables Outstanding (DRO), and Days Payables Outstanding (DPO), were analyzed along with exogenous variables such as capital intensity ratio, gross profit margin, sales surprise, firm size, and old assets. The Error Correction Three-Stage Least Squares (EC3SLS) technique for panel data analysis was used to analyze the simultaneous determination of all three CCC components. Our results demonstrate that simultaneous equations models reveal dynamic interactions among DPO and DIO. The model confirms the significance of variables such as capital intensity ratio, firm size, and the components of the cash conversion cycle in explaining inventory and payables variations. Overall, this study underscores the comprehensive impact of working capital components on business efficiency and reinforces the interplay of financial variables in organizational operations.

Suggested Citation:

Asim, Amna and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed,

Dynamic Interaction Among Cash Conversion Cycle Components and Their Antecedents in Simultaneous Equations Modeling

(September 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4959645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4959645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
N Ahangar
Narrative Literature Review on Target Cash Conversion Cycle, Speed of Adjustment and Determinants
Library Philosophy and Practice , p. 1A - 11 Posted: 2020
H S Al-Abass
Relationship between cash conversion cycle (CCC) with firm size and profitability
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 296 - 304 Posted: 2017
M A Attari , K Raza
The optimal relationship of cash conversion cycle with firm size and profitability
International journal of academic Research in business and social sciences , volume 2 , issue 4 Posted: 2012
B H Baltagi
Simultaneous equations with error components
Journal of econometrics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 189 - 200 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
604
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies