Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Accounting and Shareholders' Wealth Creation of Industrial Firms In Nigeria: A Study of Lafarge Nigeria Plc (2013-2022)

17 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2024

Boniface Umoh E.

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 13, 2024

Abstract

The study examined how environmental accounting affected shareholders' wealth generation in Nigerian industrial companies during a ten-year period, from 2013 to 2022, with a particular emphasis on Lafarge Nigeria Plc. Evaluating the impact of employee training, corporate social responsibility (CSR), and community development expenses on this company's return on equity (ROE) was one of the main goals. Using secondary data obtained from the company's annual reports and financial statements, an ex-post facto research design was used. Regression analysis was used with e-View version 9 to test the hypotheses. The results showed that the ROE of industrial enterprises in Nigeria is highly impacted by community development expenses (p-value 0.048 < 0.05). However, with p-values of 0.82 and 0.08, respectively, it was shown that there was no significant relationship between staff training expenses and CSR expenditures and ROE. The study came to the conclusion that shareholders' ability to build wealth in Nigerian industrial enterprises is not significantly impacted by environmental accounting. It was recommended that in order to increase value for shareholders and other stakeholders, these companies should improve their environmental accounting procedures.

Suggested Citation:

Umoh E., Boniface, Environmental Accounting and Shareholders' Wealth Creation of Industrial Firms In Nigeria: A Study of Lafarge Nigeria Plc (2013-2022) (March 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4961844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4961844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A Adaramola , O Onyerinde
The relationship between financial accounting, auditing and market values of quoted firms in Nigeria
Global Journal of Contemporary Research in Accounting, Auditing and Business Ethics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 39 Posted: 2014
F F Adegbie , K Ekpeni , B A Owolabi
Environmental accounting practices and firm value of quoted manufacturing companies in Nigeria
Uniport Journal of Business, Accounting and Finance Management , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 39 Posted: 2021
F F Adegbie , A A Ogidan , T T Siyanbola , A S Adebayo
Environmental accounting practices and share value of food and beverages manufacturing companies quoted in Nigeria
Journal of Critical Reviews , volume 7 , issue 13 , p. 2256 - 2264 Posted: 2020
O Adesina
Evaluation of environmental accounting and its impact on sustainable economy in Nigeria
International Journal of Social Sciences and Management Review , volume 3 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 37 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
360
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies