Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reliability-Relevance Trade Offs with an Attention-Constrained Manager

33 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2024 Last revised: 27 Nov 2024

Sebastian Fleer

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; University of Basel - Faculty of Business and Economics

Ulrich Schäfer

University of Vienna

Date Written: September 20, 2024

Abstract

We study the optimal aggregation of managers' estimates and forecasts in firms' financial reports if such information is prone to manipulation. Including managers' superior information can increase the relevance of reports but raises concerns about their reliability. Extending prior work, we endogenize the management's information advantage. We assume that managers have access to an imperfect information system and must allocate their scarce attention to learn about the firm value or about their private costs and benefits of misreporting. We highlight strategic effects of accounting aggregation: Assigning higher aggregation weights to managers' estimates directs their attention towards firm value and reduces reporting noise. As a consequence, managerial attention allocation creates a tendency towards more extreme aggregation rules. Our results provide a theoretical foundation for the dichotomous distinction between principles-based and rules-based accounting standards. Increasing quality of management information systems supports the implementation of principles-based standards, which offer managers a high degree of reporting discretion.

Suggested Citation:

Fleer, Sebastian and Schäfer, Ulrich, Reliability-Relevance Trade Offs with an Attention-Constrained Manager (September 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4962705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4962705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
David Aboody , Ron Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Christopher P Agoglia , Timothy S Doupnik , George T Tsakumis
Principlesbased versus rules-based accounting standards
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Terry A Baker , L Denton , Austin L Collins , Reitenga
Incentives and opportunities to manage earnings around option grants
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 649 - 672 Posted: 2009
Jeremy Bertomeu , Peicong Hu , Yibin Liu
Disclosure and investor inattention Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
494
RANK
644,694
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies