Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overconfidence, Manipulation, and Board Monitoring

28 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2024

Yiying Chen

Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics (ZUFE)

Date Written: September 19, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines how CEO overconfidence influences board monitoring and earnings manipulation through an analytical model. I define a CEO as being overconfident if he overestimates his actual productivity. In response to an overconfident CEO, the board increases the CEO's pay-performance sensitivity to encourage more productive effort. However, a higher pay-performance sensitivity also induces the CEO to engage in more accounting manipulation, which increases the need for board monitoring. Three key findings emerge: overconfident CEOs are less likely to succeed in manipulation; if they do succeed, the manipulation is more severe; and outsiders are more likely to detect manipulation from overconfident CEOs in firms with weaker monitoring and the opposite holds in firms with stronger monitoring. This paper offers alternative explanations for the empirical link between CEO overconfidence and manipulation and provides insights that overconfident CEOs may not necessarily engage in more manipulation.

Keywords: CEO overconfidence, Earnings manipulation, Board monitoring, Pay-performance sensitivity

JEL Classification: D91, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yiying and Chen, Yiying, Overconfidence, Manipulation, and Board Monitoring (September 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4962287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4962287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of accounting research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
R J Aumann
Agreeing to disagree
The annals of statistics , volume 4 , issue 6 , p. 1236 - 1239 Posted: 1976
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
Ceo incentives and earnings management
Journal of financial economics , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
M T Billett , Y Qian
Are overconfident ceos born or made? evidence of selfattribution bias from frequent acquirers
Management Science , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1037 - 1051 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
RANK
653,768
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies