Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Valuation of High Growth Firms: Practical Case Analysis

4 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2024

Yulia Lukina

MGIMO University

Date Written: September 23, 2024

Abstract

High growth companies as a unique economic group play an important role in the economic and social spheres of a particular state. D. Birch, the pioneer of the phenomenon of high growth companies, emphasized the special significance of this small group of companies in creating additional jobs. The selection criteria for high growth companies are revenue growth rates exceeding 20% and the duration of growth, which should be at least 5 years. High growth companies are of interest to a wide range of economic entities in conditions of global economic uncertainty and the crisis of the national economy: from state authorities to investors. Investors are seeking the best performing stocks, investing in which would improve their current financial position. Shares of high growth companies that demonstrate faster revenue growth rates compared to other companies are considered as promising investment targets. The study covers practical case analysis of Airbnb, which is an American high growth company.

Keywords: High growth companies, Gazelles, Growth stocks, Investments, Investment valuation

JEL Classification: C52, G11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lukina, Yulia, Investment Valuation of High Growth Firms: Practical Case Analysis (September 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4965043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4965043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
T G Arbatskaya , T G Arbatskaya , Ya
Features of preparing financial statements in the context of a pandemic
Azimuth of scientific research: economics and management. -2021 , volume 10 , p. 47 - 50
I B Belozertseva
Features of accounting for inventories in a commercial organization / I. B. Belozertseva // Transport business of Russia. -2021 , volume 4 , p. 21 - 23
E Voronova , ; Yu , E Yu , Yu A Voronova , Lukina
Financial statements of companies as an object of investment assessment in the context of global economic uncertainty , volume 25 Posted: 2022
T Druzhilovskaya , Yu , T Yu , E S Druzhilovskaya
Improving the formation of the financial performance report as an information base for making strategic decisions
Druzhilovskaya // Accounting. Analysis. Audit. -2021 , volume 8 , p. 69 - 79
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
413
RANK
759,678
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies