Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price-Fixing Agreements and Financial Reporting Opacity

45 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2024

Ni Nyoman Ayu Diantini

Udayana University; The University of Western Australia

Chloe CY Ho

The University of Western Australia

Rui Zhong

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of price-fixing agreement engagement on corporate financial reporting opacity. Using a sample of cartel firms with price-fixing agreements from 1985 to 2016, we document a significant decline of financial reporting opacity when a firm engages into a price-fixing agreement. This negative relationship is robust to a battery of tests that address possible endogeneity concerns. Further empirical analysis shows that the negative relationship between price-fixing agreement and financial reporting opacity is driven by product market competition, corporate financial distress, and institutional ownership. Our findings are consistent with managers reducing financial reporting opacity to facilitate information communication among participants via a public channel as the effect prolongs the duration of price-fixing agreements. Our findings reveal the externality of cartel engagements on corporate financial information disclosure strategy.

Keywords: Price-fixing agreement, Cartel coordination, Financial reporting opacity, Product market competition.

Suggested Citation:

Diantini, Ni Nyoman Ayu and Ho, Chloe CY and Zhong, Rui, Price-Fixing Agreements and Financial Reporting Opacity. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4965016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4965016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Abad , M F Cutillas-Gomariz , J P Sánchez-Ballesta , J Yagüe
Real Earnings Management and Information Asymmetry in the Equity Market
European Accounting Review , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 235 Posted: 2018
R Aggarwal , J D Schloetzer , R Williamson
Do corporate governance mandates impact long-term firm value and governance culture
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 59 , p. 202 - 217 Posted: 2019
E I Altman , A Danovi , A Falini
Z-Score Models' application to Italian companies subject to extraordinary administration
Journal of Applied Finance (Formerly Financial Practice and Education) , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 128 - 137 Posted: 2013
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
317
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies