Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Resource Allocation and Audit Quality in Branch of Accounting Firms

31 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2024

huanmin yan

Nanchang University

ziling zhu

Nanchang University

gaoteng li

Nanchang University

cuiling yang

Nanchang University

xuehua zhang

Nanchang University

Abstract

Based on the perspective of client business resource allocation, this research uses listed companies audited by branch offices of securities-qualified accounting firms from 2017 to 2020 as samples. The research results indicate that the higher the concentration of client business resources in a branch office, the lower the branch office’s overall audit quality. Subsequently, accounting firms with high levels of integrated governance can alleviate the adverse impact of the branch office’s client business resource concentration on audit quality through stricter quality control mechanisms. The research can expand the theoretical research framework of branch-level studies and audit quality.

Keywords: Client resource allocation, Client resource concentration, Director's personal centralization, Audit quality, Integrated governance level

Suggested Citation:

yan, huanmin and zhu, ziling and li, gaoteng and yang, cuiling and zhang, xuehua, Client Resource Allocation and Audit Quality in Branch of Accounting Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4967406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4967406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatheld , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conficting pressures of detecting mis statements and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
B M Barber , T Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
A I Blankley , D N Hurtt , J E Macgregor
Abnormal audit fees and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 96 Posted: 2012
C Cai , L F Xie , K N N Ma
Managers' audit background, earnings management and abnormal audit fees. Accounting Research , volume 3 , p. 72 - 78 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
216
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies