Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure and the Internal Information Environment of the Firm

53 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2024 Last revised: 22 Jul 2025

Joaquin Peris

Purdue University

Date Written: September 30, 2024

Abstract

This study explores how a firm's internal information environment affects a manager's decision to voluntarily disclose information to investors. It presents a model where the probability that a manager has information depends on whether the information is favorable or unfavorable. In the model, an internal information environment is defined as conservative (aggressive) if it is more (less) likely to inform the manager about negative outcomes. The study shows that conservative internal information environments decrease voluntary disclosure. Additionally, in conservative (aggressive) internal information environments, an increase in information asymmetry between a manager and investors leads to less (more) voluntary disclosure. This finding illuminates how the firm's internal and external information environments interact to determine the extent of voluntary disclosure and is thus of empirical relevance.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Financial Reporting, Internal Information Environment, Management Accounting, Conservatism

Funder Statement

Bernstein Center for Leadership and Ethics at Columbia Business School

JEL Classification: C72, D21, D53, D82, D83, M41

Suggested Citation:

Peris, Joaquin, Voluntary Disclosure and the Internal Information Environment of the Firm (September 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4973645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4973645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
RANK
164,283
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies