Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Tone and Share Pledging:Exploring Non-Financial Disclosure Dynamics in Chinese Listed Companies

53 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2024

Fanyong Guo

Chengdu University

Liping Li

Zhejiang Shuren University

Xiaohong Dong

Zhejiang Shuren University

John Peikang Sun

Zhejiang Shuren University

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between controlling shareholder share pledging and non-financial information disclosure, focusing on the management tone in annual reports. Analyzing data from listed Chinese companies from 2007 to 2020, we observe that companies with controlling shareholder share pledging, particularly those with larger pledge scales, tend to adopt a more positive management tone in their annual reports. This effect is more pronounced in non-state enterprises. Moreover, our findings indicate that controlling shareholder share pledging influences the net tone of management in annual reports not only by increasing the disclosure of positive tone, but also by decreasing the disclosure of negative tone. This dual effect suggests that the internal governance and operating conditions of listed companies may have a governing effect after share pledging. Therefore, this study contributes to the existing literature by identifying a novel motivation for non-financial information disclosure and expanding upon the economic consequences of controlling shareholder share pledging. Furthermore, by examining non-financial information disclosure through the lens of the second type of principal-agent relationship, this study offers practical insights into why such disclosures can be manipulated and provides valuable references for enhancing regulatory frameworks in emerging countries.

Keywords: non-financial information disclosure, share pledging, information manipulation, internal governance

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Fanyong and Li, Liping and Dong, Xiaohong and Sun, John Peikang, Management Tone and Share Pledging:Exploring Non-Financial Disclosure Dynamics in Chinese Listed Companies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4974173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4974173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
218
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies