Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reports Are Good but Not Easy to Use

93 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2024

Amin Zand

Sodertorn University (University College of Southern Stockholm)

Alisina Heydari

Sodertorn University (University College of Southern Stockholm)

Date Written: August 16, 2023

Abstract

Title: Sustainability reports are good but not easy to use.
Problematization: The study has identified a lack of research that has studied the value of
sustainability reports for private investors in Sweden. Existing research has mostly been conducted
from the perspective of companies and institutional investors, hence there is a gap that needs to be
studied.
Purpose: The purpose of the study is to gain a better understanding of the incentives that lead to
sustainable investments for Swedish private investors. Furthermore, the study aims to investigate
how sustainability reports and ESG ratings are assessed as sources of information in an investment
decision.
Theoretical frame of reference: Firstly, it presents the research that has already been done in
this area and then proceeds to present the GRI framework. Finally, Planned Behavior theory and
Individual decision process theory are presented.
Method: A qualitative method in the form of semi-structured interviews was conducted with 9
private investors who have read sustainability reports in the past and priorities sustainability in
their investments. The respondents were selected through the researchers' social media and were
interviewed either physically or remotely.
Research: The result shows that the respondents receive sustainability information from different
sources depending on their attitude towards the information source, which is based on previous
experiences, level of knowledge, preference of asset type and level of commitment. Respondents
choose sustainable options due to two factors: 1) good long-term returns and 2) strong values.
Sustainability reports are used due to two factors: 1) demand for detailed information and 2) the
perception that sustainability reporting leads to increased responsibility for companies. However,
the respondents find shortcomings in the reports, especially in terms of clarity and reliability These shortcomings can be partly explained by respondent’s lack of understanding of information
as well as companies' attempts to hide underperformance and emphasize positive news. Finally,
ESG ratings are mainly used because respondents seek information that is easy to obtain and easy
to understand. As was established in relation to sustainability reports, past experiences are also
decisive here in the perception of ESG ratings. The respondents who use only ESG ratings have
previously had positive experiences such as social confirmation from their surroundings, which
then creates the positive attitude towards ESG ratings.


Conclusions: Both sustainability reports and ESG ratings have their advantages and
disadvantages, which affects the usability of it among the respondents. The study argues that it is
previous experiences that particularly create a specific attitude that give birth to repeated use of
information sources as a basis for investment decisions for the respective respondent.

Note: Downloadable document is in Swedish.

Suggested Citation:

Zand, Amin and Heydari, Alisina, Sustainability Reports Are Good but Not Easy to Use (August 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4976710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4976710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
134 References
Referenslista
G Abate , I Basile , P Ferrari
The level of sustainability and mutual fund performance in Europe: An empirical analysis using ESG ratings
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 5 , issue 28 Posted: 2021
G Ahrne , P Svensson
The Theory of Planned Behavior
Handbok i kvalitativa metoder. Stockholm: Liber AB Ajzen, I , volume 2 , p. 178 - 212 Posted: 1991
J Alvehus , F Stevenson , M Zorzini , M
Social sustainability in developing country suppliers: An exploratory study in the ready made garments industry of Bangladesh
International Journal of Operations & Production Management , volume 5 , issue 34 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
280
134 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies