Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Design with Supplemental Investment

33 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2024 Last revised: 9 Feb 2025

Lin Nan

Purdue University

Lin Qiu

Purdue University

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Ronghuo Zheng

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: October 1, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the optimal design of information system for a firm seeking external debt financing to pursue supplemental investment opportunity. Our model features two-dimensional information asymmetries: the quality of firm fundamental (good or bad type) and the nature of the supplemental investment (improving upside potential or mitigating downside risk). With only single-dimensional information asymmetry regarding the firm’s fundamental, a perfect information system that fully reveals a firm’s fundamental type is optimal and achieves first-best investment efficiency. However, with two-dimensional information asymmetries, a perfect information system can never achieve the first best. Specifically, with low credit risk, a completely uninformative information system achieves the first best. With intermediate credit risk, achieving the first-best investment is impossible, and the optimal system for the second best features an optimistic bias. For high credit risk, a perfectly informative system achieves the second best and induces only firms with upside-improving opportunities to invest.

Keywords: Information system design, Supplemental investment, Investment efficiency

JEL Classification: D83, G30, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Nan, Lin and Qiu, Lin and Wen, Xiaoyan and Zheng, Ronghuo, Information Design with Supplemental Investment (October 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4979067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4979067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital budgeting, the hold-up problem, and information system design
Management Science , volume 46 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
J Bertomeu , E Cheynel
Asset measurement in imperfect credit markets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 965 - 984 Posted: 2015
J Bertomeu , I Marinovic
A theory of hard and soft information
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2016
J Caskey , K K Huang , D Saavedra
Amendment thresholds and voting rules in debt contracts Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
489
RANK
667,795
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies