Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO Tenure Affect Cash Dividends?

28 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024

Song Xiaobao

Shantou University

Abstract

This study examines the high cash dividend payouts during CEO tenure in China. We find that the cash dividend payout level and likelihood increase significantly with CEO tenure, but company performance does not increase simultaneously, and investment decreases with CEO tenure. The increase in cash dividend payouts enhances the probability of the CEO being re-appointed, prolongs the CEO’s tenure, and creates a positive capital market response, supporting the catering interpretation of the career concerns hypothesis. If the company is more transparent or is followed by more securities analysts, the increase in cash dividend payouts could be restrained. Similarly, if the CEO holds shares, the motivation to increase cash dividend payouts will decline.

Keywords: CEO Tenure, Cash dividends, Career concerns

Suggested Citation:

Xiaobao, Song, Does CEO Tenure Affect Cash Dividends?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4982000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4982000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
P Aghion , J Stein
Growth vs. margins: destabilizing consequences of giving the stock market what it wants
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 1025 - 1058 Posted: 2008
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
R W Anderson , M C Bustamante , S Guibaud , M Zervos
Agency, firm growth and managerial turnover
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 1082 Posted: 2018
M Baker , J A Wurgler
Creating theory of dividends
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
305
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies