Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Concentrated Ownership on Intangible Expenses: Exploitation Efficiency, Political Costs

Finance & Accounting Research Journal, volume 5, issue 3, 2023[10.51594/farj.v5i3.452]

13 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2024

Thamir salih edan

Independent

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 09, 2023

Abstract

The study aims to test Impact of Concentrated Ownership in spending on service expenses (Intangible Expenses), by testing the strength and direction of the relationship and testing the size of Impact of Concentrated Ownership in spending on service expenses in terms of exploitation efficiency and political costs for a sample of banks listed in the Iraqi Stock Exchange (the regular market amounted to (16) banks for the period (2016-2020). One of the most important conclusions reached by the study: With every increase in the percentage of Ownership by Blockholders, spending on service expenses rises without this spending being matched by achieving any returns that are reflected in the form of profits or gains, which is an indication of the inefficiency of exploiting the banks' resources or that the expenditure of these resources is done for personal gain away from the interests of the non-controlling shareholders, or this spending may be considered an indication of avoiding political costs.

Keywords: Service Expenses, Blockholders, Aggressive Tax

Suggested Citation:

salih edan, Thamir, Impact of Concentrated Ownership on Intangible Expenses: Exploitation Efficiency, Political Costs (March 09, 2023). Finance & Accounting Research Journal, volume 5, issue 3, 2023[10.51594/farj.v5i3.452], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4982313 or http://dx.doi.org/10.51594/farj.v5i3.452
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
P A Darsani , I M Sukartha
The Effect of Institutional Ownership, Profitability, Leverage and Capital Intensity Ratio on Tax Avoidance
American Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences Research (AJHSSR) , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 22 Posted: 2021
C Deegan , J Unerman
Financial accounting theory Posted: 2011
A G Habuš , J Prašnikar
Concentrated Ownership and Firm's Performance: A Bibliometric Analysis of the Literature
Economic and Business Review for Central and South-Eastern Europe , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 152 - 169 Posted: 2021
C G Holderness
Culture and the Ownership concentration of public corporations around the world
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
204
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies