Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure, Signaling, and First-Mover (Dis)advantage

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 4985567

59 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2024

Shunsuke Matsuno

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

This paper studies voluntary disclosure in a leader-follower game in a product market. The leader is privately informed about the demand prospect of the market. The leader chooses a production level and decides whether to disclose it. On the one hand, such disclosure is beneficial, as the leader can enjoy the first-mover advantage. On the other hand, the follower learns the leader's private information through disclosed information, so the leader firm has an incentive to contract production to signal low demand. This is costly to the leader, as the leader may end up producing and earning less than the follower (first-mover disadvantage). To avoid such signaling costs, the leader can conceal production information. In equilibrium, when the leader is long-term oriented, the leader discloses the production plan only when the private demand signal is low. More competition leads to less disclosure. When the leader firm is short-term oriented, an interval disclosure equilibrium can emerge. I extend the baseline model to the case where the leader may not observe a private signal (the Dye friction). Since the disclosure is about endogenous actions, the uninformed type has the option to disclose the production plan as well. I show that this friction allows the leader firm to save the signaling cost by mimicking the uninformed type. This paper offers a theory of endogenous disclosure cost.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, Leader-follower game, Signaling, Oligopoly, Accounting

JEL Classification: D43, D83, L13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Matsuno, Shunsuke, Disclosure, Signaling, and First-Mover (Dis)advantage (October 01, 2024). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 4985567, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4985567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4985567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,041
RANK
254,445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies