Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Incentives and Earnings Management: Evidence from the Adoption of an Anti-Hedging Policy

58 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2024 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Mengshu HAO

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jeong Hwan Joo

Business Administration School, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology

Date Written: October 13, 2025

Abstract

Equity incentives may motivate managers to manage earnings to influence the returns and risks of their equity incentive portfolios. We examine whether and how a firm’s earnings management varies with and without its policy that prohibits managers from hedging their equity incentive portfolios through derivative transactions. Our findings reveal that the adoption of an anti-hedging policy results in a notable increase in income smoothing and a tendency to meet or just beat consensus analysts’ earnings forecasts. Furthermore, the impact of this policy on earnings management is more pronounced in firms where managers engaged in derivative transactions before the policy adoption. We find corroborative evidence that the vast majority of the policy adopters experience a decline in the frequency of managerial derivative transactions following the policy adoption, and the policy effect on earnings management is prominent for those firms. In contrast, corporate risk-taking activities do not decrease after the policy adoption. Overall, our research offers new insights on how an anti-hedging policy influences earnings management.

Keywords: Equity incentive, compensation hedging, earnings management, income smoothing, meeting or just beating analysts' forecasts, Investors' perceived risk

Suggested Citation:

HAO, Mengshu and Joo, Jeong Hwan, Equity Incentives and Earnings Management: Evidence from the Adoption of an Anti-Hedging Policy (October 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4986536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4986536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
J Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion. 1st edition Posted: 2009
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
C Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-tolerating incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
A S Ashley , S S Yang
Executive compensation and earnings persistence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 50 , p. 369 - 382 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
617
RANK
601,090
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies