Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Information and the Securities Lending Market

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4986139

66 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2024 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Snehal Banerjee

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Finance

Kevin Smith

Stanford University Graduate School of Business

Date Written: October 14, 2024

Abstract

We show that the nature of investor disagreement shapes the impact of securities lending on trading and price dynamics around a public announcement. When investors disagree about firm value but interpret news similarly, loan fees rise before and fall after announcements in proportion to news informativeness, and the post-announcement expected price decreases when shorting demand is high, without any impact on the pre-announcement price. When investors disagree more about the news than about firm value, only investors with extreme beliefs take positions before the announcement and  news increases firms' ex-ante valuations by encouraging trade. Our predictions provide a framework for inferring the nature of investor disagreement from observable changes in trading, loan fees, and prices.

Keywords: loan fees, short-sales constraints, earnings announcement premium, difference of opinions, expected returns, securities lending, securities lending market

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Snehal and Smith, Kevin, Public Information and the Securities Lending Market (October 14, 2024). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 4986139, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4986139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4986139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
H Ai , R Bansal
Risk preferences and the macroeconomic announcement premium
Econometrica , volume 86 , issue 4 , p. 1383 - 1430 Posted: 2018
G J Alexander , M A Peterson , X W Beardsley
The puzzling behavior of short sellers around earnings announcements
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 278 Posted: 2014
A Atmaz , S Basak , F Ruan
Dynamic equilibrium with costly shortselling and lending market
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , issue 2 Posted: 2024
S Banerjee , J J Graveline
Trading in derivatives when the underlying is scarce
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 111 , issue 3 , p. 589 - 608 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,001
RANK
278,438
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies