Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Connectivity and Boundaries of Climate-related disclosures in Annual Reports

41 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2024

Prerana Agrawal

University of Western Australia

Lyndie Bayne

The University of Western Australia

Niclas Hellman

Stockholm School of Economics

Marvin Wee

Australian National University (ANU); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 03, 2024

Abstract

Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to enhance conceptual understanding and practical operationalisation of boundaries (i.e., what is included and not included in annual report sections) and connectivity (i.e., the attribute enabling a holistic and coherent set of information within and across different annual report sections) of climate-related disclosures in annual reports.

Design/methodology/approach

We analyse operationalisation of boundaries and connectivity in climate-related disclosures in the annual reports of 80 large listed companies, across five climate-sensitive industries and four IFRS jurisdictions (Australia, Canada, the EU and the UK) in 2022 and 2017. We compare boundary and connectivity guidance by contemporary sustainability and financial accounting standard setters. Further, we provide multidisciplinary stakeholder perspectives on boundary and connectivity concepts through 20 semi-structured interviews in Australia and the EU. 

Findings

While all sampled companies refer to climate-related matters in the ‘front end’ (i.e., outside of the financial statements) of annual reports in 2022 (94% in 2017), only 71% disclose within their financial statements (25% in 2017). We identified connectivity mechanisms to enhance connectivity between the financial statements and sustainability statements for climate-related disclosures, relating to the reporting process (6 mechanisms), reports (21 mechanisms) and standard setting (4 mechanisms). Interviewees indicated an increase in reporting process connectivity mechanisms over the last five years, but most reports sampled reflected an early level of connectivity in disclosures. Standard setters are providing increased guidance on connectivity mechanisms.   

Originality

A conceptual framework of connectivity mechanisms for climate-related disclosures in annual reports is proposed, based on interpretation of prior literature, comparative analysis of contemporary standards, observed disclosures, and multi-disciplinary stakeholder interviews. Further, we provide a comparative analysis of boundary dimensions of contemporary accounting and sustainability standards relating to climate. This contributes to prior literature on climate-related reporting, and scarce literature on reporting boundaries and connectivity within corporate reporting, especially in the new era of mandatory climate reporting.

Practical implications

The detailed empirical analysis on reporting boundaries and connectivity mechanisms provides useful insights for sustainability and financial accounting standard setters, auditors, preparers and users of annual reports.




Keywords: Climate disclosure, Sustainability Reporting, Connectivity in Reporting, Reporting Boundaries

Ethics Approval

Obtained for conducting interviews

Funder Statement

We thank the funders of this project – ‘IAAER-KPMG Round 8 - Informing the IASB Standard Setting Process’. We thank the IAAER Board members, IASB staff and Board members for valuable feedback received at the grant report presentation on 6 November 2023, London.

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, Prerana and Bayne, Lyndie and Hellman, Niclas and Wee, Marvin and Wee, Marvin, Connectivity and Boundaries of Climate-related disclosures in Annual Reports (October 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4989921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4989921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Aasb-Auasb
Climate-related disclosures and assurance in the Annual Reports of ASXlisted companies Posted: 2022
P Agrawal , J Birt , L Bayne , N Schonfeldt
The use of case studies in developing students' understanding of the concept 'material misstatement Posted: 2022
Accounting & Finance , volume 62 , issue S1 , p. 1307 - 1338
Andreas Barckow
Opening Ceremony at European Accounting Association Retrieved Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
RANK
125,691
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies