Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management by Newly Appointed Powerful CEOS

41 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2024

Alain Schatt

University of Lausanne, HEC-Lausanne

Corinne Bessieux

Montpellier Business School

Cédric Poretti

EHL Lausanne, HES-SO, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland

Abstract

Does a CEO become more opportunistic when the board of directors grants him more power, by appointing him/her chairperson of the board? We tackle this issue by investigating earnings management by newly appointed CEOs. We document more earnings management following the arrival of new CEOs, but this result is sensitive to CEO power, as only newly appointed powerful CEOs manage earnings upwards. Moreover, the firm’s ownership structure matters, as new powerful CEOs manage earnings more in family firms than in firms with dispersed ownership. However, this finding is sensitive to the level of control exercised by the family: new powerful CEOs only manage earnings when family control is weak (i.e., the family holds less than 50% of voting rights). Our main findings hold when accounting for the fact that CEO turnover is not random with a Heckman two-stage model. Overall, we conclude that new powerful CEOs are more opportunistic than other new CEOs, as they impair financial reporting quality, especially in firms with less effective monitoring mechanisms.

Keywords: CEO turnover, CEO power, Earnings management, Ownership structure

Suggested Citation:

Schatt, Alain and Bessieux, Corinne and Poretti, Cédric, Earnings Management by Newly Appointed Powerful CEOS. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4992420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4992420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies