Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wired Governance: The New Frontier in Corporate Control Systems

24 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2024

Koki Arai

Kyoritsu Women's University

Kazuo Takeda

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of digitalization on internal control within corporate governance through the application of a formal economic model. This study develops the models of Chen and Chu (2005) and Marinovic (2013) to investigate how various aspects of digitalization, such as AI, IT systems, and blockchain technology, influence key parameters of internal control, including the probability of detecting tax evasion and the strategic behavior of management in financial reporting. The paper posits that digitalization can enhance monitoring capabilities, automate processes, increase transparency, and augment the efficiency and effectiveness of audits. It also underscores potential challenges, such as the requisite technical understanding and the management of emerging risks. The paper utilizes data from regulatory bodies and industry associations in Japan to substantiate its findings. It concludes that companies must reevaluate their internal control systems and corporate governance frameworks for the digital age, while regulators and policymakers should address emerging risks and opportunities. The paper contributes to the scholarly discourse by offering new insights into the incentive structures between managers and owners within the context of digitalization and presents practical implications for auditing practices and corporate strategy.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Digitalization, Internal Controls, Risk Management, financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Arai, Koki and Takeda, Kazuo, Wired Governance: The New Frontier in Corporate Control Systems. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4993626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4993626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies