Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Financial Auditing Approach Using Failure Effect Mode Analysis

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2024 Last revised: 14 Jan 2025

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Yusuf Ugras

La Salle University

Saeed Askary

American University of Iraq-Baghdad

Date Written: April 07, 2023

Abstract

This paper proposes adopting Failure Effect Mode Analysis (FMEA) in audit procedures in order to improve the prediction of corporate failures and improve reliance on financial reports. It is well known that corporate failures adversely affect the accounting profession's reputation, public interest, social costs, capital markets, and the national financial and monetary economic system, causing wasted resources by companies and losses by shareholders. In this article, we incorporate various recommendations of Brydon (2019) by suggesting the use of FMEA to strengthen the auditing profession. We are focusing on fundamental financial measures of liquidity and profitability, intending to increase the reliability of going concern issues for the company being audited. This article proposes the FMEA model for a substantial audit reform. FMEA adoption can prevent corporate failures in the future through the proposed model. This research is helpful to standard setters, managers, auditors, and governmental agencies and, finally, can protect the public interest.


Keywords: Corporate Failures, Failure Mode Analysis, Going Concern, Liquidity, Profitability

Suggested Citation:

Askarany, Davood and Ugras, Yusuf, A Financial Auditing Approach Using Failure Effect Mode Analysis (April 07, 2023). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4999775 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4999775
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Anne Albrecht , Matthew Glendening , Kyonghee Kim , Raynolde Pereira
Auditor Going Concern Opinions and Bank Systemic Risk: Evidence from the 2007-2009 Financial Crisis
Auditing : A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2020
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , Q Cox , J M Dupont , And R Karpoff , Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
S Askary , Jp Abu Arnaout , N Ghazaleh
Audit Evidence and Modelling Audit Risk Using Goal Programming
International Journal of Applied Decision Science , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 35 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
517
RANK
429,664
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies