Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring The Impact Of Emotional Intelligence On Leadership Effectiveness: A Meta-Analysis In Management Studies

https://kuey.net/index.php/kuey/article/view/1728

6 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2024

Ms Seema Narendran

KPB Hinduja College of Commerce

Dr. Roshni Jaiswal

Ashoka Institute of Technology & Management

Rekha. S

P.S.R Engineering College

Mrs. Priti Rai

Shri Krishna University

Dr. Bhadrappa Haralayya

Visvesvarayya Technological University (VTU) - LINGARAJ APPA ENGINEERING COLLEGE BIDAR

Aditya Singh Yadav

MJP Rohilkhand University, Bareilly, India.

Avinash Kumar Mishra

ISBR Business School

Date Written: April 13, 2024

Abstract

In the context of management studies, this meta-analysis explores the complex relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) and leadership effectiveness. Through the synthesis of a wide range of previous studies, this study seeks to offer a thorough knowledge of the ways in which emotional intelligence affects leadership results. This research provides insight into the complex ways that emotional intelligence (EI) influences several aspects of leadership, such as team dynamics, decision-making, and organizational success. It does this by carefully examining empirical data. The goal of this study was to bring the body of research analyzing the potential relationship between emotional intelligence and effective leadership together. This affiliation was analyzed utilizing metanalytic techniques. The discoveries showed that emotional intelligence and leadership effectiveness by and large have a positive affiliation. Besides, a second and third meta-analysis confirmed the general positive connection between emotional intelligence and leadership effectiveness, regardless of the way that the kind of emotional intelligence scale that was used coordinated this association.

Keywords: Emotional Intelligence, Leadership Effectiveness, Meta-Analysis, Decision-Making, Organizational

Suggested Citation:

Narendran, Ms Seema and Jaiswal, Dr. Roshni and S, Rekha. and Rai, Mrs. Priti and Haralayya, Dr. Bhadrappa and Yadav, Aditya Singh and Mishra, Avinash Kumar, Exploring The Impact Of Emotional Intelligence On Leadership Effectiveness: A Meta-Analysis In Management Studies (April 13, 2024). https://kuey.net/index.php/kuey/article/view/1728, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5000233 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5000233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
W Akhtar , R Garcia
Exploring the Role of Emotional Intelligence in Leadership Effectiveness: A Quantitative Approach
Management Science Research Archives , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 27 Posted: 2023
D Dabke
Impact of leader's emotional intelligence and transformational behavior on perceived leadership effectiveness: A multiple source view
Business Perspectives and Research , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 40 Posted: 2016
L A Downey , V Papageorgiou , C Stough
Examining the relationship between leadership, emotional intelligence and intuition in senior female managers
Leadership & Organization Development Journal , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 250 - 264 Posted: 2006
H El-Chaarani
Exploring the impact of emotional intelligence on portfolio performance: An international exploratory study
Humanomics , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 474 - 497 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,913
RANK
242,713
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies