Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Risk Disclosure in Banks’ Pillar 3 Reporting Informative? Analyzing Tone Consistency with Annual Reports

54 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2024

Minyue Dong

University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Anne Christine d'Arcy

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Michael Rockinger

University of Lausanne - School of Economics and Business Administration (HEC-Lausanne); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Swiss Finance Institute

Huajuan Yuan

University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Abstract

We assess the informativeness of tone in risk disclosure by analyzing tone (in)consistency between two main sources of bank reporting: regulatory reports according to the Pillar 3 framework (hereafter P3) and annual reports according to IFRS. Using a sample of European banks from 2008 to 2021, our results indicate that qualitative risk disclosure in P3 reports is informative for banks’ capital adequacy and can be used as a benchmark to assess the (in)consistent signal in annual reports. If the tone of P3 reports shifts towards optimism, a consistently positive tone in the annual report will enhance the informativeness of risk disclosure in P3. Conversely, if P3 reports lean towards pessimism, an inconsistent optimistic tone in the annual report will lead to an obfuscation effect on P3 informativeness. The significance of above results depends on the P3 standardization in 2015 and the supervision role of the central bank. Our study provides first evidence regarding the asymmetric effects of tone (in)consistency among different channels of risk disclosure in banks’ communications with stakeholders. We conclude that banks' narrative P3 reporting has an incremental effect on its overall informativeness, extending beyond the risk disclosures provided in annual reports.

Keywords: Annual report, Financial institutions, Pillar 3 report, Risk disclosure, Sentiment analysis, Tone consistency

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Minyue and d'Arcy, Anne and Rockinger, Georg Michael and Yuan, Huajuan, Is Risk Disclosure in Banks’ Pillar 3 Reporting Informative? Analyzing Tone Consistency with Annual Reports. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5000463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5000463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A F Adam-Müller , M H R Erkens
Risk disclosure noncompliance
J ACCOUNT PUBLIC POL , volume 39 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
M E Bagnoli , S G Watts
Financial reporting and supplemental voluntary disclosures
J ACCOUNT RES , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 885 - 913 Posted: 2007
S P Baginski , E Demers , A Kausar , Y J Yu
Linguistic tone and the small trader. ACCOUNT ORG SOC 68-69 , p. 21 - 37 Posted: 2018
B Bassyouny , T Abdelfattah , L Tao
Narrative disclosure tone: A review and areas for future research
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 49 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
RANK
785,362
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies