Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inter-temporal Dynamics of Cost Asymmetry

45 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2024

Eti Einhorn

Tel Aviv University

Efrat Shust

The Department of Management and Economics, The Open University of Israel

Date Written: October 27, 2024

Abstract

Despite its large body and fundamental importance, the literature on asymmetric cost behavior has evolved empirically and lacks theoretical foundation. To address this gap in the literature, we introduce a novel theoretical framework for studying the dynamics of cost behavior over time in a competitive environment. Our theoretical analysis delves into the primitives of asymmetric cost behavior and explores its inter-temporal dynamics. The analysis yields the result that cost behavior is asymmetric by default, transpiring in the pattern of cost stickiness following resource expansion while taking the form of cost anti-stickiness subsequent to resource contraction. The analysis further suggests that the magnitude of cost asymmetry, either stickiness or anti-stickiness, is decreasing in demand uncertainty and competition intensity, increasing in adjustment costs and time discounting, and greater for small demand shocks than for large demand shocks.

Keywords: cost behavior, cost asymmetry, cost stickiness, cost anti-stickiness

Suggested Citation:

Einhorn, Eti and Shust, Efrat, Inter-temporal Dynamics of Cost Asymmetry (October 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5001106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5001106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
R D Banker , D Byzalov
Asymmetric cost behavior
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 43 - 79 Posted: 2014
R D Banker , D Byzalov , L T Chen
Employment protection legislation, adjustment costs and cross-country differences in cost behavior
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 127 Posted: 2013
R D Banker , D Byzalov , M Ciftci , R Mashruwala
The moderating effect of prior sales changes on asymmetric cost behavior
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Menachem (Meni) Abudy , Efrat Shust
Cost behavior and profitability of family firms
Finance Research Letters , volume 85 , p. 108006 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
323
RANK
889,053
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies