Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Whom it May Concern: The Value of Auditing Grade Assessment on Educational and Labour Market Outcomes

33 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2024

Daniela Sonedda

University of Insubria

Paolo Ghinetti

University of Piemonte Orientale

Giorgia Casalone

University of Piemonte Orientale

Abstract

In this paper, we assess the impact of auditing final high school grades on educational and labour market outcomes, leveraging a 2007 reform in Italy that introduced external examiners. We extend the combined fixed effects method to estimate how the reform increased the earnings returns to higher education. We find that 90% of the reform effect is across occupations and higher for women. We show this impact was mediated by different higher education choices, unlocking opportunities in occupations and earnings they wouldn’t have had otherwise. We conclude that grade inflation associated to internal teachers assessment has detrimental effects on both educational and labour market outcomes.

Keywords: Education Returns, Auditing, High education tracks, Earnings, Gender gap

Suggested Citation:

Sonedda, Daniela and Ghinetti, Paolo and Casalone, Giorgia, To Whom it May Concern: The Value of Auditing Grade Assessment on Educational and Labour Market Outcomes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5004066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5004066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
J Altonji , P Arcidiacono , A Maurel
The analysis of field choice in college and graduate school , volume 5 , p. 305 - 396 Posted: 2016
J Altonji , P Arcidiacono , A Maurel
The analysis of field choice in college and graduate school:determinants and wage effects , volume 5 , p. 305 - 396 Posted: 2016
J Altonji , E Blom , C Meghir
Heterogeneity in human capital investments: High school curriculum, college major, and careers
Annual Review of Economics , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 185 - 223 Posted: 2012
J Altonji , E Blom , C Meghir
Heterogeneity in human capital investments: High school curriculum, college major, and careers
Annual Review of Economics , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 185 - 223 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
246
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies