Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Sharing for Validation: Evidence from Social Networks

The Wharton School Research Paper

Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper

77 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 8 Jul 2025

Minji Yoo

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: October 30, 2024

Abstract

I propose a new theory for why investors share their information on social networks: validation. While conventional wisdom suggests that investors share information solely to influence public beliefs and move market prices in their favor, interactive social networks allow investors to receive feedback and refine their beliefs. In such environments, validation emerges as a distinct and economically significant incentive, complementing the traditional incentive to influence. To empirically investigate this idea, I classify X.com posts according to two primary incentives: influence and validation, inferring investors’ motivations based on language use. My main analyses provide evidence supporting the validation incentive. First, validation requires more time: validating posts take longer to process new information from public disclosures than influencing posts. Second, validation improves information quality. Information that arises from discussions—especially replies to validating posts—shows a stronger association with market prices. Additionally, I find that information sharing driven by validation incentives increases during periods of high market uncertainty, when the validation incentive is expected to be stronger. In contrast, influencing posts are more frequent when investors are incentivized to exit the market.
Overall, my findings suggest that validation sharing occurs in investor networks and show that validation through public discussion and feedback allows investors to overcome high integration costs to improve their private information, though at the cost of additional time.

Keywords: information sharing incentives, validation, influence, investors, social networks, grain futures markets, sentiment, X.com, Twitter, topic modeling

JEL Classification: D80, D82, D83, D84, D85, D53

Suggested Citation:

Yoo, Minji, Information Sharing for Validation: Evidence from Social Networks (October 30, 2024). The Wharton School Research Paper, Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5005454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5005454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Ferhat Akbas , Stanimir Markov
Determinants and consequences of information processing delay: Evidence from the Thomson Reuters Institutional Brokers' Estimate System
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 127 , issue 2 , p. 366 - 388 Posted: 2018
Ferhat Akbas , Felix Meschke , M Babajide Wintoki
Director networks and informed traders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
Daniel Andrei , Henry Friedman , N Bugra Ozel
Economic uncertainty and investor attention
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 149 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 217 Posted: 2023
Brad M Barber , Terrance Odean
All That Glitters: The Effect of Attention and News on the Buying Behavior of Individual and Institutional Investors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
812
RANK
297,230
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies