Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Progress, Delays, and the Timeliness of Reporting

42 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2024

Felix Zhiyu Feng

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Gaoqing Zhang

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: September 28, 2024

Abstract

This paper studies the optimal contractual arrangement when managers have private information about the progress and delays during firm operations or product development. The optimal contract may grant the manager a discretionary period during which he has full autonomy over whether and when to report any progress or delays. If success is not achieved by the end of the discretionary period, the manager is given the incentives to report his private information as soon as it becomes available. Contrary to conventional wisdom, riskier operations or developments are typically associated with more discretion. The optimal contract displays commonly observed features in practice and generates novel implications for the timeliness of managerial disclosures or regulatory interventions.

Keywords: information asymmetry, disclosure, reporting timeliness, managerial discretion, dynamic contract

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Felix and Zhang, Gaoqing, Progress, Delays, and the Timeliness of Reporting (September 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5008502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5008502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Ackerman , R L Ensign
Fed Rethinks Loophole That Masked Losses on SVBs Securities. The Guardian Posted: 2023-04-21
J Bertomeu , L Mahieux , H Sapra
Interplay between accounting and prudential regulation
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 53 Posted: 2023
B Biais , T Mariotti , J.-C Rochet , S Villeneuve
Large risks, limited liability, and dynamic moral hazard
Econometrica , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 118 Posted: 2010
K Burkhardt , R Strausz
Accounting transparency and the asset substitution problem
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 712 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
471
RANK
622,944
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies