Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Communication between Rival Firms and Analysts

83 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024 Last revised: 22 Mar 2025

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Phillip C. Stocken

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: November 04, 2024

Abstract

We examine the communication between rival firms and analysts when they sequentially commit to subsequently disclose their privately observed information. Rival firms can choose to disclose their information, and analysts have the opportunity to comment on it. While a firm recognizes that its rival will exploit its disclosure, the firm hopes that the benefit from the analyst's comments it receives will more than offset this disadvantage. An analyst may be unwilling to comment, however, as the analyst's and firm's interests may be misaligned. Our analysis identifies how this communication is impacted by a firm's uncertainty about an analyst's interests and the properties of the firm and analyst information endowments. It also examines how regulatory policies requiring the disclosure of analysts' conflicts of interest affects this communication. We find that this policy may have beneficial real effects and hence enhance social welfare.

Keywords: two-way communication, voluntary disclosure, equity analyst coverage, duopolistic competition

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Xu and Stocken, Phillip C., Public Communication between Rival Firms and Analysts (November 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5009173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5009173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
E Alfonso , S Lin , Y Yu
Analyst Stock Ownership and Stock Recommendations Posted: 2017
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers'responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The interaction among disclosure, competition between …rms, and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 321 - 339 Posted: 2007
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Competitive intelligence and disclosure
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 46 , p. 709 - 729 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
RANK
556,453
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies