Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tale of Two Efficiencies: Does Managerial Efficiency Affect Price Efficiency?

30 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2024

andreas karathanasopoulos

SOAS University of London

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Sijia Luo

Independent

Cheng Yan

University of Essex

Abstract

Using a sample of US-listed firms from 1990 to 2018, we identify a positive relationship between managerial efficiency/ability and price efficiency. We are the first to relate managerial efficiency with price efficiency and provides novel evidence on a new determinant of price efficiency. The results are robust to alternative measures. We use two methods to address endogeneity. We further identify that the liquidity channel between managerial efficiency and price efficiency is of largest importance. For policymakers, in addition to monitoring the reporting quality and encouraging voluntary disclosure, this paper sheds light on a new approach to alleviate stock price delay.

Keywords: Managerial efficiency, Price efficiency, Price delay, Liquidity, CEO

Suggested Citation:

karathanasopoulos, andreas and Ho, Kung-Cheng and Luo, Sijia and Yan, Cheng, A Tale of Two Efficiencies: Does Managerial Efficiency Affect Price Efficiency?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5018151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5018151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,968
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,131
RANK
19,093
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies