Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price Overestimate 

10 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2025

Haritha Kavindya

Independent

Date Written: October 23, 2024

Abstract

A new view on the price of goods. The benefits you get from this equation are immense.

Note: Downloadable document is in Sinhala.

Declaration of Interest

1. Identify Potential Conflicts Financial Interests: Disclose any funding or financial support related to the study from institutions, companies, or individuals. For instance, if a company provided funds or resources, it should be stated. Personal Relationships: Note any personal connections with individuals or organizations that might influence the research or its interpretation. Institutional Affiliations: If your organization might benefit from the study's findings, this should be disclosed as well. 2. Format Your Declaration Use a straightforward sentence or two summarizing your interests. Here’s an example: "The authors declare that there are no conflicts of interest relevant to this study." OR if there is a conflict: "Author X received funding from [Funding Organization] for conducting this study, which may be perceived as influencing the study's findings. However, all authors confirm that this relationship did not affect the objectivity of the research." 3. Place in the Paper Most journals request this statement on the title page or just before the references. Follow the specific guidelines of the journal or platform where you’re submitting your paper.

Suggested Citation:

Kavindya, Haritha, Price Overestimate  (October 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5020788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5020788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
216
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies