Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Periodic Disclosure on Price Informativeness and Cost of Capital in a Keynesian Beauty Contest Setting

69 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2025 Last revised: 7 Feb 2025

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Liyan Yang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xu Wei

Central University of Finance and Economics

Xueyong Zhang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Date Written: November 16, 2024

Abstract

We study the effect of periodic public disclosure in a two-period rational expectations equilibrium model with short-term investors, thus featuring Keynesian beauty contest. We find that periodic public disclosure, i.e., disclosing public information in every period generates substantially different results on how disclosure affects price informativeness and cost of capital, compared with previous literature when public disclosure after trading is absent. Specifically, the introduction of future-period public information can both increase the price informativeness of the previous period through alleviating the beauty contest effect and decrease the price informativeness through crowding out the informativeness of future disclosure. Despite the opposing effect, we find that more precise periodic disclosure unambiguously increases the informativeness of all prices, in contrast to the independence result documented in the previous literature. More precise periodic disclosure has a more subtle effect on ex-ante cost of capital, again in contrast to the independence result documented previously. Our results provide novel empirical and regulatory implications.

Keywords: periodic disclosure, price informativeness, cost of capital, Keynesian beauty contest

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Xu and Yang, Liyan and Wei, Xu and Zhang, Xueyong, The Effect of Periodic Disclosure on Price Informativeness and Cost of Capital in a Keynesian Beauty Contest Setting (November 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5023632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5023632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty contests and iterated expectations in asset markets
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
O E Barron , H Qu
Information asymmetry and the ex ante impact of public disclosure quality on price efficiency and the cost of capital: Evidence from a laboratory market
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 1269 - 1297 Posted: 2014
P Bond , A Edmans , I Goldstein
The real effects of financial markets , volume 4 , p. 339 - 360 Posted: 2012
P Bond , I Goldstein , E S Prescott
Market-based corrective actions
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 781 - 820 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
691
RANK
390,788
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies