Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revealing Client Names in Inspection Reports: Effects of PCAOB Transparency on Audit Quality and Private Litigation

51 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2024 Last revised: 16 Dec 2024

Negin Attar-Niggemann

University of Zurich - Managerial Accounting

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Felix P. Niggemann

University of Zurich

Date Written: November 30, 2024

Abstract

Whether the PCAOB should enhance the transparency of its inspection reports is the subject of ongoing debate. This study examines the effects of two potential disclosure policies: revealing the identities of companies whose audits were found to be deficient and revealing the identities of companies whose audits were found to be in compliance with standards. We analyze how these disclosure policies affect investors' incentives to pursue legal action and auditors' incentives to perform diligent audits. Our findings indicate that a policy of disclosing client-specific compliances increases audit effort incentives, whereas a policy of disclosing client-specific deficiencies increases audit effort if investors face high costs of initiating litigation, and reduces audit effort otherwise. Moreover, the PCAOB's recent shift toward stricter enforcement penalties and advancements in audit technologies increase the positive effects of disclosing the identities of clients with deficient audits. Our study provides insights for policymakers and regulators seeking to improve audit quality and transparency.

Keywords: PCAOB inspections, Transparency, Audit deficiencies, Audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Attar-Niggemann, Negin and Laux, Volker and Niggemann, Felix P., Revealing Client Names in Inspection Reports: Effects of PCAOB Transparency on Audit Quality and Private Litigation (November 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , C T Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from client firm reaction to adverse
GAAP deficient PCAOB inspection reports. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
A Acito , A Amel-Zadeh , J Anderson , W L Anderson , D Aobdia , F Brochet , H Chen , J Fluharty-Jaidee , M C Schmalz , M Tang , W J Scott
Market-based incentives for optimal audit quality Posted: 2024
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
K Bagwell
Commitment and observability in games
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 280 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
828
RANK
436,820
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies