Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Profits for Economic Health

22 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2024

Arthur Jonath

affiliation not provided to SSRN

John O'Connell

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Fred Khorasani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

We consider outcomes of profit decisions from an analysis of economic data and an analogy with natural science principles.  First, we assess what constitutes a healthy economy and articulate our view that profits are necessary for that health. Next, we utilize an analogy of economic cash flow with physical heat energy flow that leads to an indicator of economic health.  Next, we examine options for managing corporate profits and use available data and cash-flow relations to show the economic consequences of profit decisions.  We conclude that direct investment of profits, rather than delaying reinvestment or sequestering them in accounts or luxury purchases unavailable to generate new value, is best for economic health.  Finally, we suggest a policy that would encourage healthy profit decisions.

Keywords: Profit Distribution, Reinvestment, Consumer and Producer Confidence Indexes, Temperature Gradient Causes Cash Flow, Non-Value-Added Tax

Suggested Citation:

Jonath, Arthur and O'Connell, John and Khorasani, Fred, Managing Profits for Economic Health. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024907 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024907
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Rudolf Clausius
The Mechanical Theory of Heat -with its Applications to the Steam Engine and to Physical Properties of Bodies , p. 978 - 935397259 Posted: 1867
The Economics of Y2K and the Impact on the United States
The Entropy Law and the Economic Process (Full book accessible at Scribd) Posted: 1971
Institute for Supply Management (ISM), retrieved from Trading Economics Posted: 2024-07-01
B Jacob , S Thomas , J Joseph
Over two decades of research on choice overload: An overview and research agenda
Int J Consum Stud , volume 48 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
200
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economics of Innovation eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies