Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Could Country-by-Country Reporting Increase Profit Shifting?

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-13

49 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2024

Ruby Doeleman

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Dominika Langenmayr

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Dirk Schindler

Erasmus School of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

Since 2016, Country-by-Country reporting has provided tax authorities with detailed information about multinationals' worldwide activities. It has been hailed as a game-changer for corporate taxation, enabling tax authorities to target multinational firms with high profits in tax havens. We model Country-by-Country reporting as increasing both tax planning and audit costs for profit shifting multinationals, where the latter costs depend on the share of profits held in tax havens. Then, Country-by-Country reporting makes shifting profits from a high-tax country to a tax haven relatively more attractive than shifting from a low-tax country to a tax haven-a substitution effect. Thus, while the total amount of profits shifted to the tax haven decreases, profit shifting from hightax affiliates may increase relative to the situation without Country-by-Country reporting. We confirm these changes in profit-shifting patterns using a staggered difference-in-differences design. The opposing effects for low-tax and high-tax countries also help explaining the mixed findings of previous empirical studies on Country-by-Country reporting.

Keywords: Country-by-Country-Reporting, Profit Shifting, Anti Tax-Avoidance Rules

JEL Classification: H25, H26, F23

Suggested Citation:

Doeleman, Ruby and Langenmayr, Dominika and Langenmayr, Dominika and Schindler, Dirk, Could Country-by-Country Reporting Increase Profit Shifting? (November 18, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024358 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
H S Obs , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Affiliate-level data from Orbis for 2012-2021. The dependent variable is EBT/Assets, defined as the affiliate's Profit Before Tax divided by Total Assets. Panel A shows robustness regarding the sample. Compared to the main analysis, columns (1) and (2) exclude MNCs with consolidated revenues between EUR 740 million and EUR 760 million, columns (3) and (4) include U.S. MNCs, and columns (5) and (6) only include MNCs with at least one tax haven affiliate. Panel B shows estimates using different estimators. Columns (1) and (2) show estimates using Sun and Abraham (2021); columns (3) and (4) using Callaway and Sant'Anna (2021), and columns (5) and (6) using De Chaisemartin and D'Haultfoeuille (2024)
The Accounting Review , volume 248 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
L Baudot , J A Johnson , A Roberts , R W Roberts
Is corporate tax aggressiveness a reputation threat? Corporate accountability, corporate social responsibility, and corporate tax behavior
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 163 , p. 197 - 215 Posted: 2019
K A Bilicka
Comparing UK tax returns of foreign multinationals to matched domestic firms
American Economic Review , volume 109 , p. 2921 - 2953 Posted: 2019
B Callaway , P H C Sant'anna
Difference-in-differences with multiple time periods
Journal of Econometrics , volume 225 , p. 200 - 230 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
633
RANK
245,414
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies