Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Design of an Adoption Model for Artificial Intelligence in the Teaching-Learning Process for Accounting Students in Colombia

22 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2024

Jhon Wilder Sanchez Obando

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Nestor Darío Duque Méndez

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Antonio José Osorio Giraldo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Artificial Intelligence (AI) stands out as one of the most transformative technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, impacting numerous facets of society, including education. In this context, its influence on the teaching-learning process in the field of accounting is of particular interest and requires thorough analysis. This study aims to investigate the factors that influence the intention to use artificial intelligence in the educational processes of accounting students. It seeks to enable new support models to address specific learning challenges in accounting education that have traditionally been addressed through conventional approaches. To achieve this, a quantitative methodology using Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM) is proposed. The study integrates different factors using the Technology-Organization-Environment (TOE) framework, with data collected from over 140 students from two private universities in Colombia. An adapted instrument was used to validate the use of AI in undergraduate auditing courses. Finally, a conceptual model is developed and validated through structural equations to assess the relationship between different factors that influence the intention to adopt AI in the teaching-learning process of accounting in Colombia. The results indicate that students' prior experience with AI significantly influences their intention to adopt AI in their professional accountancy education. The main contribution of this paper is the presentation of a model that facilitates the intention to adopt AI techniques within the teaching-learning processes for students pursuing public accounting

Keywords: artificial intelligenceTOEteaching-learningaccountsPLS SEM

Suggested Citation:

Sanchez Obando, Jhon Wilder and Duque Méndez, Nestor Darío and Osorio Giraldo, Antonio José, Design of an Adoption Model for Artificial Intelligence in the Teaching-Learning Process for Accounting Students in Colombia. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5036028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5036028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R E Atencio-Gonzáles
Inteligencia artificial en Educación , volume 9 , p. 2 - 3 Posted: 2023
F J García-Peñalvo , F Llorens-Largo , J Vidal
The new reality of education in the face of advances in generative artificial intelligence
RIED-Revista Iberoam. Educ. a Distancia , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 39 Posted: 2024
Q Chen , J J Wang , X G Lan , N N Zheng
Preference Relationship-Based CrossCMN Scheme for Answer Ranking in Community QA
TH IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON DATA MINING (ICDM 2019), no. 19th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM). Xi An Jiao Tong Univ , p. 81 - 90 Posted: 2019
A Kaplan , M Haenlein
Siri, Siri, in my hand: Who's the fairest in the land? On the interpretations, illustrations, and implications of artificial intelligence
Bus. Horiz , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 25 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
526
RANK
640,233
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies