Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investor Clique and Corporate Tax Avoidance

33 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2024

Yong Du

Southwest University

Hongyan Hu

Central University of Finance and Economics

Wenwen Cui

Southwest University

Bo Yan

Guangdong Ocean University

Jun Du

Guangdong Ocean University

Abstract

The occurrence of institutional investors collaboration has become increasingly common in the capital market, exerting direct or indirect influence on corporate behavior. This study employs the Louvain social network algorithm to approximate and compute the institutional investor herding index of enterprises. The findings indicate a significant suppression of corporate tax avoidance by institutional investor herding. Mechanism analysis reveals that institutional investor herding enhances corporate information transparency, thereby amplifying the regulatory impact of government supervision and reducing enterprise debt financing costs through its "information transmission" effect. Additionally, it exerts an "alliance supervision" effect by heightening monitoring incentives for small , medium-sized and short-term institutional investors, increasing their research intentions, and curbing downward true earnings manipulation, consequently suppressing corporate tax avoidance behavior. Further investigation demonstrates that the suppressive impact of institutional investor herding on corporate tax avoidance complements regional tax collection intensity, particularly evident in regions with larger tax preferential policies. This study underscores how the common shareholding-based institutional investor network can enhance corporate information transparency, alleviate financing constraints, mitigate agency problems, serving as a crucial micro-level pathway for small institutional investors to exert governance roles and improve resource allocation efficiency. It also contributes evidence regarding the economic effects of institutional investor herding in China's capital market while enriching relevant literature in network economics at the level of institutional investors.

Keywords: Institutional investor, Social network, corporate governance, Tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Du, Yong and Hu, Hongyan and Cui, Wenwen and Yan, Bo and Du, Jun, Institutional Investor Clique and Corporate Tax Avoidance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5042845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5042845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer
Corporate Governance, Incentives, and Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
S Assenza , J Gómez-Gardeñes , V Latora
Enhancement of Cooperation in Highly Clustered Scale-free Networks
Physical Review E , volume 78 , issue 1 Posted: 2008
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The Separation of Ownership and Control and Corporate Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
366
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies