Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inclusion in Thematic Indices: Implications for Corporate Investment and Executive Compensation

51 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Klaus Haider

University of Vienna - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Statistics

Date Written: December 13, 2024

Abstract

Empirical studies have found that stock index inclusion leads to more market attention. This paper examines how the public information triggered by index inclusion affects firm investments and stock-based management compensation. Using an agency model with a costly investment project that increases the probability of index inclusion, I demonstrate that thematic indices create incentives for investment and managerial actions if there is an intermediate level of information asymmetry between a speculator and the public. Firms invest more to reduce the expected loss of shareholders to the speculator and lower the manager's compensation risk. In contrast, if the information asymmetry is very low or very high and liquidity trading introduces little noise, shareholders' losses to the speculator are already low for firms outside the index, and the additional information increases the stock price variance and compensation risk. Hence, the firm invests less to avoid index inclusion. The same forces are at play in an extension with an investment that reduces the firm's inclusion probability. Consequently, the board adjusts the investment level in the opposite direction.

Keywords: thematic investing, stock index, executive compensation, cost of capital, ESG

JEL Classification: M40, M12, M14, G23, G14

Suggested Citation:

Haider, Klaus, Inclusion in Thematic Indices: Implications for Corporate Investment and Executive Compensation (December 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5054349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5054349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
S Baruch , X Zhang
The distortion in prices due to passive investing
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 8 , p. 6219 - 6234 Posted: 2022
P Bond , D García
The equilibrium consequences of indexing
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 35 , issue 7 , p. 3175 - 3230 Posted: 2022
J Bonham , A Riggs-Cragun
Motivating ESG activities through contracts, taxes and disclosure regulation
Chicago Booth Research Posted: 2022
P Chaigneau , N Sahuguet
Executive compensation with social and environmental performance Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
659
RANK
798,750
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies