Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Production, Real Investment, and External Financing

48 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Hyun Hwang

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Eunhee Kim

CUNY Baruch College

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

We propose a model in which the production of financial information can cause similar firms or capital markets to diverge significantly in real efficiencies. In a setting where a firm can secure external funding to expand its investment scale, we show that a feedback loop emerges between the firm's production of high-quality information and its investment scale. This feedback loop can be amplified by small changes in a firm's financial assets or the level of legal protection for external investors, resulting in large and discontinuous shifts in both information quality and investment scale. We extend the model to examine the joint determination of firms' information production, investment scale, and regulators' choice regarding the level of investor protection. The analysis identifies a feedback loop among these choices, which can cause two otherwise identical economies to exhibit different levels of real efficiency. These results provide insights into how financial information production can drive economic divergence between rich and poor countries and amplify the impact of financial shocks on real investments. The analysis also offers a rationale for financial reporting regulations as a means to support capital market development.

Keywords: Information production, increasing returns to scale, external financing, investor protection JEL Classification: K40, L50, M40

Suggested Citation:

Hwang, Hyun and Kim, Eunhee, Information Production, Real Investment, and External Financing (November 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5054504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5054504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
P Aghion , P W Howitt
The economics of growth Posted: 2008
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J A Robinson , Robinson
Institutions as the Fundamental Cause of Long-Run Growth
Handbook of Economics Growth Posted: 2005
W B Arthur
Increasing Returns and the New World of Business
Harvard Business Review , p. 100 - 109 Posted: 1996-07
A Arya , B Mittendorf
On the synergy between disclosure and investment contests
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , issue 2-3 , p. 255 - 273 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
623
RANK
697,608
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies