Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disciplinary Boundaries of Accounting: Structure and History of Research Programs and Institutions

311 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2025 Last revised: 15 Dec 2024

Olga N. Volkova

Independant

Date Written: June 04, 2024

Abstract

Modern accounting, which arose as a result of institutionally determined forms of business organization at the very beginning of the second millennium AD, has now gone through several stages of development, turning from a simple technology for recording business data into a socio-economic institution, a system of rules and standards for business information support, administrative and managerial practice, profession and, at the same time, into an academic discipline.

What institutions constitute and support accounting practices? What does the practice and economic discipline of “accounting” consist of? What exactly is accounting science? How can one determine that a particular research question or a particular problem is relevant to its subject field? Why do article authors and journal editors believe that a particular study, publication, or project meets the standards of our discipline? Is the knowledge that different authors presented in their articles scientific? Answers to all these questions require a special approach to defining the subject field of accounting and its disciplinary matrix. In addition to the picture of the subject field, it is equally important to understand how this state of affairs came to be. Studying the history of how accounting institutions arose, developed and changed in response to changes and needs in the development of the economy and society will allow us to better understand the relationship of accounting with other socio-economic institutions, practices and its capabilities in solving socio-economic problems.

Russian economists, including those working in the field of accounting, often recognize accounting by default as a purely practical discipline that serves the organization’s relations with certain groups of interested parties (stakeholders), one of the applied sections of economic science, one of the financial disciplines. The idea of its subject field is, as a rule, quite narrow - it is interpreted mainly as a set of accounting methods, techniques, concepts, reporting forms; the relationship of accounting with other areas of knowledge, institutions, sciences and practices is rarely considered. Very few papers on accounting topics other than methodological ones are published in Russian, and this is fundamentally different from the situation in the English-language scientific literature.

In global science, accounting is an actively developing and rather complex structured discipline, which emerged from the traditional boundaries of economic disciplines in the last third of the twentieth century and has long been recognized as a social science (Bernstein, 1965, p. 34; Hopwood, Miller, 1994). This is facilitated by universal quantification, ranking, decision-making based on “objective” criteria, increased transparency and accountability, which determine the functioning of modern technologically advanced societies and are the result of the penetration of accounting into all social practices, even non-economic ones, over the past 20-30 years. Accounting has long occupied a strong place in the programs of leading universities and academic classifiers of economic literature.

However, there are some gaps in the accounting research domain. Understanding the general picture of the subject field of a particular discipline (such as accounting) contributes to the structuring of science as a whole, gives an idea of the place of accounting among the socio-economic sciences, of areas of the intersection with other sciences and of the possible contribution of accounting to the solution of interdisciplinary problems. These issues determine the relevance of this study from a theoretical point of view.

Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.

Keywords: accounting, accounting theory, accounting history, accounting paradigms

JEL Classification: Y4, B00, B4, B52, M41, N20

Suggested Citation:

Volkova, Olga N., Disciplinary Boundaries of Accounting: Structure and History of Research Programs and Institutions (June 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5057182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5057182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
556 References
Академические дисциплины как часть науки в целом: общенаучные причины
Границы экономических дисциплин: дисциплинарные причины
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
601
556 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies