Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Scientific Framework of Automated Accounting and Auditing on the Blockchain Technology Platform

29 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Payam Noori Doabi

Science and Research Branch of Islamic Azad University

Date Written: December 19, 2024

Abstract

The objective of this research is to contribute to the advancement of knowledge in the field of automated accounting and auditing, with a particular focus on the use of blockchain technology. Furthermore, the research will seek to establish a theoretical, conceptual and ethical framework for the aforementioned processes. This research employs a teleological approach, which is defined as a method of inquiry that seeks to identify the purpose or end result of a phenomenon. To this end, a systems approach in the modern approach of Future Technology Analysis (FTA) was used to examine the fundamental concepts underlying blockchain and its applications in accounting and auditing. The fundamental concepts underlying automated accounting and auditing on the blockchain platform were organized and explained within a scientific framework that includes theoretical, conceptual, and ethical considerations. Based on the aforementioned findings, a conceptual, theoretical, and ethical framework was developed and elucidated based on content analysis derived from an understanding of the essential elements of the topic, its underlying rationale, and its operational mechanics. This was accomplished through the use of coding in Atlas.ti v9 and ConceptDraw software. Blockchain capabilities provide a platform for automated accounting and auditing in a scientifically, practically, and logically rigorous manner. The evolution of this research was meticulously designed and presented as a conceptual, theoretical, and ethical framework. The features, alterations, and potentialities of automated accounting and auditing on the blockchain technology platform collectively reinforce the necessity for further investigation, as they demonstrate the significant advantages that this technology offers in comparison to traditional methods. This research takes a novel, forward-looking approach and envisions the use of automated accounting and auditing on the blockchain technology platform. It presents, for the first time, comprehensive scientific frameworks and a systematic model for integrating the understanding of concepts, foundations, processes, and norms.

Keywords: Automated Accounting and Auditing, Blockchain, Theoretical Framework, Conceptual Framework, Ethical Framework

Suggested Citation:

Noori Doabi, Payam, A Scientific Framework of Automated Accounting and Auditing on the Blockchain Technology Platform (December 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5064655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5064655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
Z Abdoli , E Kamali , A Rostami , A Aghaei Chadegani
Futurology of auditing from the information technology, regulatory, structural and procedural changes perspectives
Journal of System Management , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 101 - 124 Posted: 2023
M Ahmadi , A Rousta , M H Maleki , F Asayesh
Future Study of Marketing in the Banking Industry with a focus on Blockchain Technology
Journal of System Management , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 133 - 146 Posted: 2022
I Ajzen , F Almeida , Spencer ; Tereka; Brande , Joe & Catalano , Lucano , G Isaac
''Organizações, pessoas e novas tecnologias
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
E Araral
Why do cities adopt smart technologies? Contingency theory and evidence from the United States
Cities , volume 106 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
RANK
682,509
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Innovation Finance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies