Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Big-Data Tax Governance Alleviate the Maturity Mismatch of Corporate Investment and Financing?

18 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2024

Qian Niu

Guangzhou University

Qiuyuan Ou

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

FENGLI KANG

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Abstract

Corporate investment and financing maturity mismatches is an urgent issue. This study uses Chinese A-share listed companies and the local implementation of big-data tax governance as a quasi-natural experiment to examine whether big-data tax governance can address the corporate investment and financing maturity-mismatch problem. Furthermore, corporate-tax compliance is selected as the mechanism variable to study the mechanism of action of big-data tax governance on the investment and financing term mismatch of firms. We find that big-data tax governance intensifies the investment and financing term-mismatch problem of firms and significantly affects the investment and financing term-mismatch problem by improving corporate-tax compliance.

Keywords: Big-data tax governance, Tax Compliance, Firm Investment and Financing Maturity Mismatch

Suggested Citation:

Niu, Qian and Ou, Qiuyuan and KANG, FENGLI, Does Big-Data Tax Governance Alleviate the Maturity Mismatch of Corporate Investment and Financing?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5069533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5069533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
V V Acharya , D Gale , T Yorulmazer
Rollover risk and market freezes
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 1177 - 1209 Posted: 2011
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Enjoying the quiet life? Corporate governance and managerial preferences
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , issue 5 , p. 1043 - 1075 Posted: 2003
M Campello , E Giambona , J R Graham , C R Harvey
Liquidity management and corporate investment during a financial crisis
Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 1944 - 1979 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
305
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies