Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Mathematical Derivation of the Rules Governing Debits and Credits: The Foundation of Double-Entry Bookkeeping

14 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025 Last revised: 25 Mar 2025

Leonard Brown

Independent Analyst

Date Written: December 25, 2024

Abstract

This short note derives a mathematical equation underlying the Rules of Debits and Credits, the foundation of double-entry bookkeeping. This note also shows that the fundamental mathematical idea that underlies “Double-Entry Accounting”, the requirement for a minimum of two entries to maintain equation balance, can be applied to any equation relating changes [e.g. Δ

Keywords: double-entry, accounting, Credits and Debits, Luca Pacioli, Debits and credits, Double-entry bookkeeping, Bookkeeping

Declaration of Interest

I have no personal or financial relationship with any organization.

Ethics Approval

Not applicable.

Funder Statement

This paper was self-funded.

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Leonard, A Mathematical Derivation of the Rules Governing Debits and Credits: The Foundation of Double-Entry Bookkeeping (December 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5072107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5072107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
A Cayley
The principles of bookkeeping Posted: 1894
S S Dawson
Accountants' compendium Posted: 1908
J B Geijsbeek
Ancient double-entry bookkeeping: Lucas Pacioli's treatise (A.D. 1494-the earliest known writer on bookkeeping) Posted: 1914
J Gleeson-White
Double entry: How the merchants of Venice created modern finance Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
505
RANK
653,768
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies