Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incorporating the Contingency Theory of Management Accounting to Improve the Effectiveness of Management Accounting Training for Non-Finance Specialists Working in Small Enterprises

38 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2025

Paul Jo Caulfield

University of Dundee

Abstract

This paper will argue that by considering the contingency theory of management accounting when designing a work-based management accounting training programme which is aimed at non-finance managers working in small enterprises, the perception of the effectiveness of the training and the subsequent adoption of the techniques taught will be maximised. By considering this theory, the key financial information requirements of these targeted organisations will be identified and incorporated when undertaking an iterative adaptive training design process. This will lead to perceived improvement in the financial management within those small enterprises.  This research is informative as it contributes to the process required to build a perceived effective management accounting training programme for the non-financially trained working in small enterprises.

Keywords: Small Enterprise Training, Management Accounting, Iterative Training Development.

Suggested Citation:

Caulfield, Paul Jo, Incorporating the Contingency Theory of Management Accounting to Improve the Effectiveness of Management Accounting Training for Non-Finance Specialists Working in Small Enterprises. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5080380 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5080380
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Incorporating the Contingency Theory of Management Accounting to Improve the Effectiveness of Management Accounting Training for Non-Finance Specialists working in Small Enterprises
M Abba , L Yahaya , N Suleiman
Explored and Critique of Contingency Theory for Management Accounting Research
Journal of Accounting and Financial Management , volume 4 , issue 5 Posted: 2018
H L Ackers , J Ackers-Johnson
Iterative Learning: 'Knowledge for Change
Mobile Professional Voluntarism and International Development Posted: 2017
N Allen , M Davey
The Value of Constructivist Grounded Theory for Built Environment Researcher
Journal of Planning Education and Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 222 - 223 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
667
RANK
667,795
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies