Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Loss Aversion in Multi-Rater Subjective Performance Evaluations

49 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2025 Last revised: 6 Oct 2025

Taichi Kimura

Keio University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Takahiro Morimitsu

Meiji University

Date Written: April 07, 2025

Abstract

We study how to design multi-rater subjective performance evaluations that curb leniency and compression while preserving credible incentives. The setting has two subjective reports (supervisor and employer), a loss-averse worker, and rating-linked consequences that are non-appropriable organizational losses (“money burning”). The optimal design is parsimonious: without per-outcome caps, consequences concentrate on the joint-low outcome; when caps bind, the joint-low position is set at its limit and a small additional consequence is placed on the disagreement outcome (supervisor low, employer high). No other outcome is ever used. Two interpretable thresholds partition the problem into single-outcome implementation, a two-outcome regime when caps bind, and infeasibility; the expected organizational cost is available in closed form. The structure is robust under positively correlated signals and maps to observable statistics, strictness, dispersion, cap-binding frequency, and joint-outcome frequencies, yielding testable implications for calibration committees.

Keywords: Calibration committees, Subjective performance evaluation, Multi-rater appraisal, Non-verifiable performance measures, Loss aversion, Conflict costs (money burning)

Suggested Citation:

Kimura, Taichi and Morimitsu, Takahiro, The Role of Loss Aversion in Multi-Rater Subjective Performance Evaluations (April 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5083726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5083726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
T S Ahn , I Hwang , M.-I Kim
The impact of performance measure discriminability on ratee incentives
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 389 - 417 Posted: 2010
I Alves , S M Lourenço
Subjective performance evaluation and managerial work outcomes
Accounting and Business Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 127 - 157 Posted: 2023
G Baker , R Gibbons , K J Murphy
Subjective performance measures in optimal incentive contracts
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 1125 - 1156 Posted: 1994
J C Bol
The determinants and performance effects of managers' performance evaluation biases
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1549 - 1575 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
533
RANK
864,457
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies