Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Integrated Thinking on Firm Value: An International Perspective

34 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2025

Xinyu Zhao

Soochow University

Mohamed Omran

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU); Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU); Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU) - International Business School Suzhou; International Business School Suzhou

Sardar Ahmad

University of Liverpool - Management School (ULMS)

Abstract

This paper investigates how integrated thinking (IT) contributes to firm value and the role it can play in reducing misstatements in non-financial disclosures. Using textual analysis and drawing on an international sample of firms from 2013 to 2022, the findings of this study reveal that IT is significantly positively associated with financial and non-financial value creation. Furthermore, IT reduces misstatements in non-financial disclosures. Additional analysis shows that the relationship between IT and value creation is positively mediated by non-financial value creation (NFVC), whereas misstatements in disclosures negatively mediate this relationship. The findings of this study are robust to alternative specifications and after controlling for endogeneity. These results have important policy implications for regulators and practical implications for managers in making non-financial disclosures and adopting IT policies.

Keywords: Integrate Thinking, Value creation, Non-financial value creation, Misstatements, Textual analysis.

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Xinyu and Omran, Mohamed and Ahmad, Sardar, The Impact of Integrated Thinking on Firm Value: An International Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5087626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5087626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
C A Adams
Conceptualising the contemporary corporate value creation process
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 906 - 931 Posted: 2017
V Athanasakou , A Boshanna , N Kochetova , G Voulgaris
Strategy and business model disclosures in annual reports: The role of the legal regime
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2023
F Barnabè , M C Giorgino , M Kunc
Visualizing and managing value creation through integrated reporting practices: a dynamic resource-based perspective
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 23 , p. 537 - 575 Posted: 2019
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
412
RANK
759,678
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies