Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market for Accountants

The Wharton School Research Paper

70 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2025 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Bong-Geun Choi

Yonsei University

Jung Ho Choi

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Maureen F. McNichols

Stanford University

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: December 22, 2024

Abstract

This paper develops and estimates a structural model of the labor market for accountants that integrates forward-looking lifetime occupational choices with oligopsonistic employer demand. Using longitudinal resume data covering career transitions of business graduates across six sectors (Big 4, non-Big 4, internal accounting, finance/consulting, technology, and other), we specify a discrete choice dynamic programming model in which workers accumulate sector-specific skills while considering monetary and non-monetary factors, and employers compete for talent under imperfectly elastic labor supply. Estimates indicate that accounting labor markets are characterized by economically significant markdowns (the gap between a worker’s marginal product and their wage) and entry barriers. Counterfactual analyses suggest that reducing employer market power and, to a lesser degree, eliminating entry barriers would increase accountants’ lifetime career values and improve (labor) resource allocation across sectors.

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Bong-Geun and Choi, Jung Ho and McNichols, Maureen F. and Zhou, Frank, The Market for Accountants (December 22, 2024). The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5101847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5101847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
I Abramova
Labor supply and M&A in the audit market
Journal of Accounting & Economics Posted: 2024
I Abramova , R N Hann , W Wang , J Zhang
Navigating auditor turnover: Early promotion and retention in the audit profession Posted: 2025
D Acemoglu , D Autor
Skills, tasks and technologies: Implications for employment and earnings
Handbook of Labor Economics , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1171 Posted: 2011
J G Altonji , P Arcidiacono , A Maurel
The analysis of field choice in college and graduate school: Determinants and wage effects
Handbook of the Economics of Education , volume 5 , p. 305 - 396 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
692
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,954
RANK
85,900
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies