Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quiet Investment: Overconfident CEOs and Capex Guidance

59 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025 Last revised: 9 Sep 2025

Abhishek Ramchandani

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Department of Accounting

Il Sun Yoo

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: January 17, 2025

Abstract

We study the effect of CEO overconfidence on capital expenditure (capex) guidance. Perhaps surprisingly, our theoretical model predicts that overconfident CEOs issue less capex guidance despite being eager to make capex investments. The broad intuition is that overconfident CEOs overinvest from the shareholders' perspective, reducing the benefit of disclosure and thus weakening the incentive to disclose. Empirical analysis confirms both elements: Overconfident CEOs are keen to invest in capex but issue less capex guidance. We strengthen inference for our mechanism via cross-sectional tests and a quasi-natural experiment based on bonus depreciation for capex. Our results provide nuance to prior research, which has typically shown that overconfident CEOs are more likely to engage in voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: CEO overconfidence, voluntary disclosure, capex investment

JEL Classification: G34, M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Ramchandani, Abhishek and Yoo, Il Sun, Quiet Investment: Overconfident CEOs and Capex Guidance (January 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5103332 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5103332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
S Anwer , Scott Ahmed , Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Bipin Ajinkya , Sanjeev Bhojraj , Partha Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Jihun Bae , Gary C Biddle , Chul W Park
Ray Ball, Sudarshan Jayaraman, and Lakshmanan Shivakumar. Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the confirmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Eli Bartov , Suresh Radhakrishnan , Itzhak Krinsky
Investor sophistication and patterns in stock returns after earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 63 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
977
RANK
392,891
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies