Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF TELECOM INDUSTRY IN SULTANATE OF OMAN

11 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2025

Nithya Ramachandran

University of Technology and Applied Sciences - Ibra

Dr. Abhijit Kelkar

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 27, 2019

Abstract

The aim of the study was to analyse the financial performance of telecom companies in Oman. Annual reports of two telecom companies were collected for seven years (2010-2016) and the financial statement data was analysed using Z score model. The results of the analysis shows that the performance of Omantel was better than Ooredoo. The present study is a fundamental analysis of telecom companies in Sultanate of Oman. The study can provide an idea for the investors in which company they can make investments to earn more returns. The parameters selected for analysis proves to be useful to an investor for his basic analysis of selecting portfolio of investment.



Suggested Citation:

Ramachandran, Nithya and Kelkar, Dr. Abhijit, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF TELECOM INDUSTRY IN SULTANATE OF OMAN (June 27, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5112830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5112830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Anis Ali , M I
Telecommunication Sector of Saudi Arabia: Internal and External Anlysis
International Business Management , p. 1363 - 1373 Posted: 2017
M S Ashutosh Mishra
Comparative Study of Major Telecom Providers in India
IOSR Journal of Electronics and Communication Engineering , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 62 - 68 Posted: 2015-06
G B Halageri
Analysis of Finanacial Health of select firms from Indian textile industry using Altman's Z score analysis
International journal of research in Management Posted: 2014
S Jan
Financial Statements Analysis of Idea Cellular & Reliance Telecommunications: A Comparative Study
Imperial Journal of Interdisciplinary Research , p. 1468 - 1485 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
328
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies