Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonizing Financial Reporting Standards: Evaluating Differences Between IASB and AAOIFI

27 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2025

ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Mustafa (Dilshod) Tuychiev

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Date Written: June 18, 2024

Abstract

In recent years, the Accounting and Auditing Organisation for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI) has diligently worked to harmonize its financial reporting standards with International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), aiming to reduce existing disparities between their conceptual frameworks. Following the release of revised conceptual frameworks by both the IASB in 2018 and AAOIFI in 2020, it has become crucial to scrutinize the differences between IASB and AAOIFI. While some disparities have been addressed, others are expected to persist due to the distinct structural objectives of the IASB and AAOIFI, reflecting their respective mandates. This divergence is a natural outcome of their differing regulatory missions.

This research paper catalogues the differences between IASB and AAOIFI at conceptual framework levels, exploring alternative methods to bridge these gaps. The study employs a rigorous methodology, drawing on published sources through literature and library research. The research underscores that some discrepancies between IASB and AAOIFI's conceptual framework, particularly in the presentation and disclosure of financial statement elements, can be mitigated by enhancing disclosures in the notes to the financial statements. However, significant recognition and measurement differences persist. Addressing these gaps through additional disclosures or alternative methods may pose challenges for Islamic Financial Institutions (IFIs) reporting under IASB. In conclusion, the paper recommends continued efforts to harmonize IASB and AAOIFI standards, aiming to minimize differences to the greatest extent possible.

Suggested Citation:

MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN and Tuychiev, Mustafa (Dilshod), Harmonizing Financial Reporting Standards: Evaluating Differences Between IASB and AAOIFI (June 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5114242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5114242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
RANK
584,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies