Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Research on Safety Investment, Governance Characteristics and Audit Fee

18 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2025

Dongchuan Lin

Southwest University of Finance and Economics

Lingfeng Liao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

jian zhao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yijing Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yi Hu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Safety production management is an important guarantee for Chinese modernization construction, and enterprises are important micro-subjects to implement safety production management responsibilities. Based on the perspective of micro-governance in macro policy, data from A-share listed enterprises in high-risk industries spanning from 2012 to 2020 were selected to investigate the impact mechanism of safety investment by enterprises on audit fee in this paper. In addition, the heterogeneity in the institutional shareholding and the educational background of the top management team (TMT)was examined. The results show that there is a negative correlation between corporate safety investment and audit fee, and both institutional investors' shareholding share and the heterogeneity of TMT' educational background have reverse moderating effects on the relationship between them. The research on safety investment and audit fee were enriched, the application scenarios of branding theory and team behavior integration theory were expanded, and a three-dimensional reference basis for the government to improve safety production management policies, enterprises to optimize safety investment decisions, and auditors to strengthen security risk assessment and response were provided in this paper.

Keywords: Safety investment, Audit fee, Top management team (TMT), Institutional investor shareholding

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Dongchuan and Liao, Lingfeng and zhao, jian and Li, Yijing and Hu, Yi, Empirical Research on Safety Investment, Governance Characteristics and Audit Fee. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5114822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5114822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A case study of municipal companies
Nankai Management Review , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 80 - 93 Posted: 2013
A Mackey , T B Mackey , J B Barney
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Performance: Investor Preferences and Corporate Strategies[J] , volume 32 Posted: 2007
G Bae , S Choi , S U K Lamoreaux , P T
A uditors' fee premiums and low-quality internal contr ols
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 586 - 620 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
238
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies