Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:
Enhancing Transparency and Governance: Implementing Sharia Compliance Framework in Indonesia's IPF Sector

24 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2025

ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Salman Abdurrubi Perwiragama

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Date Written: January 28, 2025

Abstract

The regulation of Islamic peer-to-peer fintech (IPF) in Indonesia is under the purview of Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK) that fall within the regulation Number 10 of year 2022 (POJK 10/2022), covering both Islamic and conventional peer-to-peer (P2P) fintech companies. However, the shariah compliance of IPF with the regulation is not explicitly indicated. Operates in the Islamic finance industry, IPF companies’ channel funds from crowds or peers (investors) to beneficiaries (enterprises) via online platforms. Thus, a sharia compliance framework (SCF) becomes essential in managing Sharia non-compliance risk at the sectoral and/or industrial levels. As such, sharia-compliant businesses' misinterpretation probability or misconduct can be reduced, where, stakeholders could easily assess market’s Sharia compliance. This study explores the potential of SCF for IPF companies especially in interpreting Sharia related matters, challenges in product management, and the possibility of establishing a common SCF in Indonesia Islamic fintech industry. A qualitative approach using semi-structured interviews of regulator, Islamic fintech industry association and Islamic fintech companies was utilised in addressing the objective of this study. A total of 6 industry players with an average of 4 years of experience in the fintech industry participated in this study. The participants' profiles range from a junior bank supervisor at a regulatory body to the Head of the Shariah Supervisory Board and Director of Finance. Their inputs are significant and enrich the knowledge of operations in the fintech industry. The results are clustered into 3 major themes: First, SCF is defined as technical guidelines issued by authorities to ensure Sharia compliance across all aspects of corporate governance in IPF companies. It aims to unify practices and enable measurable Sharia compliance assessments, leveraging the Behavioral Theory of Firms. SCF integrates into corporate governance frameworks like POJK 10/2022, enhancing transparency without imposing excessive costs. It mandates Sharia compliance across all IPF activities, resolving discrepancies in interpreting Sharia principles and serving as a unifying standard for Islamic financial practices. Second, SCF addresses challenges in product management within the IPF sector by standardizing mechanisms and mitigating "fatwa shopping," ensuring consistency in Sharia compliance across financing products. This includes the mandatory provision of a Product Disclosure Sheet (PDS) and an annual Sharia report to enhance transparency and investor confidence. Thirdly, SCF's implementation establishes a standardized framework aimed at enhancing Sharia compliance across the IPF industry, though challenges remain in harmonizing diverse practices. Industry perspectives favor a principles-based SCF, encouraging innovation under regulatory oversight while emphasizing operational efficiency. However, concerns include potential disputes over compliance claims and the cost-effectiveness of regulatory reviews, necessitating careful consideration by regulators to maintain credibility and effectiveness.

Suggested Citation:

MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN and Perwiragama, Salman Abdurrubi,
Enhancing Transparency and Governance: Implementing Sharia Compliance Framework in Indonesia's IPF Sector
(January 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5114283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5114283
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
RANK
592,557
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting - Disclosure eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies