Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual capital disclosures (ICD) of Islamic banks under IFRS versus AAOIFI regimes: an international evidence

19 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2025

Syaima Adznan

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi, Malaysia

ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Shamsher Mohamad

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Date Written: August 28, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-The purpose of this paper is to examine and compare the trend of intellectual capital disclosures (ICD) of Islamic banks under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI) regimes over a seven-year period (2012-2018). Design/methodology/approach-A self-developed checklist was developed to measure the extent of ICD practices of Islamic banks in both regimes. Findings-The results revealed a moderate increase in ICD practices over the period of the study. However, there is no significant difference in ICD between the two financial reporting regimes i.e. IFRS and AAOIFIbased banks. In fact, most of the IFRS-based banks have better ICD than AAOIFI-based banks throughout the analysis period. This study contributed to the ICD literature by introducing Shariah capital as a new category of information to disclose besides the common disclosure on human capital, relational and structural related information by the Islamic banks. Practical implications-It is important for Islamic banks to distinguish themselves from conventional banks and ICD can be a conduit to show their uniqueness. The introduction of Shariah capital in this study reflects the main objective of Islamic bank's existence, and it should become an important element in ICD. In fact, some form of guidelines or policy by regulating agencies could facilitate the ICD by Islamic banks and reflect the truth about their ability to capitalize on Intellectual capital and disclose about these practices to their stakeholders. Originality/value-The introduction of Shariah capital as a new component to the existing components (i.e. human capital, structural capital and relational capital) of intellectual capital brings a new perspective to the research on ICD of Islamic banks. This paper further contributes to the scarce evidence of ICD of Islamic banks globally.

Keywords: Islamic banks, Intellectual capital disclosures, IFRS, AAOIFI, Shariah capital

Suggested Citation:

Adznan, Syaima and MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN and Mohamad, Shamsher, Intellectual capital disclosures (ICD) of Islamic banks under IFRS versus AAOIFI regimes: an international evidence (August 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5115003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5115003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Accounting, Auditing and Governance (AAOIFI) (2005), "AAOIFI standards Posted: 2019-06
E Akkas , M Asutay
The impact of intellectual capital formation and knowledge economy on banking performance: a case study of GCC's conventional and Islamic banks
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Posted: 2022
E Akkas , M Asutay
Intellectual capital disclosure and financial performance nexus in Islamic and conventional banks in the GCC countries
International Journal of Islamic and Middle Eastern Finance and Management , volume 15 , issue 5 , p. 943 - 966 Posted: 2022
M Anifowose , H M Rashid , H A Annuar
Intellectual capital disclosure and corporate market value: Does board diversity matter?
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 369 - 398 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
718,946
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies