Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Treatment of Cryptocurrencies: The Perspective of Current Accounting Standards

18 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2025 Last revised: 28 Jan 2025

ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Shamsher Mohamad

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

aimi adibah

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mohammad Noor Hisham Osman

University Putra Malaysia - Department of Accouting and Finance

Date Written: July 30, 2024

Abstract

Cryptocurrencies are digital currencies void of any support from regulatory body that is currently in vogue as a medium of exchange and an investment security. This paper examines the accounting treatment for cryptocurrency from the perspective of IFRS and AAOIFI accounting standards and propose actions to standard setters on the best way to treat the Crypto transactions in accounting reports. A proper accounting treatment will allow for a fair reporting of crypto related transactions and facilitate users of financial statements to make objective assessment of this new invention. A content analysis was conducted to review all major accounting standards issued by accounting standards setting bodies for possible accounting treatment for cryptocurrencies. To better understand the issue in practice, an analysis of accounting treatment of cryptocurrencies by 2 companies also was conducted. This study found that there is no suitable accounting standard that could objectively be applied for cryptocurrencies. For example, from the perspective of the current accounting standards, cryptocurrencies match the definition of inventory if it is used as a commodity for broker-trader and intangible asset for others respectively. It is suggested that there an urgent need for the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to comprehensively develop accounting standard for cryptocurrency, specifically to develop a specific category for this type of assets to allow a standard treatment for cryptocurrency and fill the gap in the IFRS.

Keywords: Cryptocurrency, Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standard Board, inventory, intangible asset

Suggested Citation:

MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN and Mohamad, Shamsher and adibah, aimi and Osman, Mohammad Noor Hisham, The Accounting Treatment of Cryptocurrencies: The Perspective of Current Accounting Standards (July 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5115486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5115486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
N Acheson
How Bitcoin Mining Works. CoinDesk Posted: 2013-08-20
Ahmeddirar
Why Ripple XRP Can't Be Mined unlike Bitcoin and Digital Currencies Posted: 2018-04-06
Bearman
Bitcoin's Creator May Be worth $6 Billion -but People Still Don't Know Who It Is
CNBC Posted: 2017-10-27
Second Replacement Prospectus. Bitcoin Group Limited Posted: 2015-09-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
RANK
441,693
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies