Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Busy Boards, Delegated Decision-Making, and Misreporting

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 0[10.1111/jbfa.12861]

58 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2025 Last revised: 3 May 2025

Abhishek Ramchandani

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Department of Accounting

Alexandra Lilge

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Date Written: February 02, 2025

Abstract

We study how shareholders choose board directors with respect to outside directorships. In our setting, a CEO works on a project, and the board has formal authority over an interim decision. A relatively "busy'' board—a board composed of directors who also serve on some other boards—is likely to delegate the interim decision to the CEO, while a more "available'' board is likely to retain its formal authority. By reducing the likelihood of delegation, greater board availability decreases the pressure on costly bonus payments designed to discipline the CEO. However, precisely because the CEO is unlikely to control the interim decision, she misreports performance to distort the board's decision-making according to her preferences. Shareholders trade off these opposing effects in choosing the board's busyness. Our results offer a new explanation for why shareholders rarely elect "dedicated'' directors and highlight a potential downside of guidelines aimed at limiting directors' total directorships. We also provide an alternate rationale for the finding that younger firms choose busier boards. Finally, our model predicts that boards should be relatively busier in emerging markets.

Keywords: Busy Boards, Delegated Decision-Making, and Misreporting Decision-making quality, compensation, internal controls, board structure, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Ramchandani, Abhishek and Lilge, Alexandra, Busy Boards, Delegated Decision-Making, and Misreporting (February 02, 2025). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 0[10.1111/jbfa.12861], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5122165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Renée B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Renée B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
Renée B Adams , Benjamin E Hermalin , Michael S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Cyrus Aghamolla , Tadashi Hashimoto
Aggressive Boards and CEO Turnover
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 437 - 486 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
522
RANK
605,468
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies