Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

A STUDY ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND GENDER EQUALITY: RECOGNISING THE CONNECTIVITY AND LOOKING FOR SOLUTIONS

14 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Vishal Gupta

Laxmichand Golwala College

Date Written: December 14, 2024

Abstract

Gender inequality is a pre-existing issue that is exacerbated by change in climate, which put a disproportionately effect on women. It is a universal issue faced by women all over the world. Especially in the backward region of the world, it is worse because of their poor economic condition and lower standard of living. This research investigates the connection between gender equality and climate change, emphasising how changes in climate affect women's social standing, health, and economic opportunities. It is essential to integrate gender considerations into climate policies and decision-making processes, as demonstrated by a comprehensive review of research and case studies related to climate change initiatives. The findings underscore the significance of empowering women, implementing gender-sensitive climate adaptation strategies, and fostering inclusive decision-making practices.

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Vishal,

A STUDY ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND GENDER EQUALITY: RECOGNISING THE CONNECTIVITY AND LOOKING FOR SOLUTIONS

(December 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5134094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5134094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M Rainard , J Smith , S Pachauri
Gender equality and climate change mitigation: Are women a secret weapon?
Frontiers in Climate , volume 5 Posted: 2023
J Roy , A Prakash , S Some
Synergies and trade-offs between climate change adaptation options and gender equality: a review of the global literature
Humanit Soc Sci Commun , volume 9 Posted: 2022
M Andrijevic , J Crespo Cuaresma , T Lissner
Gender and Climate Change. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
Nat Commun , volume 11 Posted: 2019
U Confalonieri
Human health and climate change
Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 19 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
322
RANK
848,823
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies