Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Analysis of GAAP and IFRS: Why the USA uses GAAP, Europe uses IFRS, and GAAP is absent in Bangladesh

8 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2025 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Md Miraj Hossen Khan

Independent

Date Written: February 12, 2025

Abstract

Accounting standards play a vital role in financial transparency, comparability, and investor confidence. The generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the international financial reporting standards (IFRS) are the two dominant accounting framework used globally. While the United States follows GAAP, most European countries have transition to IFRS to promote financial harmonization. Bangladesh on the other hand, does not implement GAAP and has instead aligned with IFRS-based financial reporting standards. This paper explore the historical, regulatory, and economic reasons behind these choices and examines their implications for financial reporting and economic development.

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Md Miraj Hossen, A Comparative Analysis of GAAP and IFRS: Why the USA uses GAAP, Europe uses IFRS, and GAAP is absent in Bangladesh (February 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5137404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5137404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
RANK
609,870
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies