Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Don't Say a Word: Auditor and Management Disclosures

55 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2025 Last revised: 2 Apr 2025

Xiaoyan Wen

Texas Christian University

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: April 02, 2025

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the effects of auditor risk disclosure on manager voluntary disclosures, audit effort, and investment efficiency. We demonstrate that auditor disclosure and manager voluntary disclosure may be substitutes or complements depending on the level of business risk. These two disclosures jointly influence audit effort and investment efficiency. We find that auditor disclosure does not impact investment efficiency when a company's business risk is low. Conversely, when the business risk is high, auditor disclosure enhances investment efficiency by conveying the risk information about the audit. When the business risk falls within the intermediate range, auditor disclosure might impair investment efficiency through its impact on manager voluntary disclosure and audit effort. Our research contributes to the understanding of the dynamics between auditor and manager disclosures and sheds light on their collective impact on audit effort and investment efficiency.

Keywords: significant risk, auditor disclosure, voluntary disclosure, investment efficiency JEL Codes: M42

Suggested Citation:

Wen, Xiaoyan and Ye, Minlei, Don't Say a Word: Auditor and Management Disclosures (April 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5143745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5143745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
T Baldenius
Delegated investment decisions and private benefits of control
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 4 , p. 909 - 930 Posted: 2003
J W Bentley , T A Lambert , E Wang
The effect of increased audit disclosure on managers' real operating decisions: Evidence from disclosing critical audit matters
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 40 Posted: 2021
J Bertomeu , E Cheynel , D Cianciaruso
Strategic withholding and imprecision in asset measurement
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 5 , p. 1523 - 1571 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
RANK
635,835
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies