Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Disclosure Timing

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 5149287

59 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2025 Last revised: 6 Aug 2025

Seung Lee

University of Southern Denmark

Ivan Marinovic

Graduate School of Business, Stanford University

Date Written: February 17, 2025

Abstract

  We develop a model of disclosure timing in which the firm can commit to disclose its revenues at a fixed date (a time-based disclosure policy) or after a certain number of transactions have occurred (a news arrival-based disclosure policy). We show that the firm trades off disclosure impact and "internalization'' when making its disclosure timing decision: postponing the disclosure date increases the impact that the disclosure will have on prices, but limits the time horizon over which the firm can internalize the benefits of this price movement after the disclosure. With time-based disclosure, more uncertainty over beliefs induces front-loaded (earlier) disclosure. When the disclosure policy is arrival-based, the threshold is relatively more stringent when individual transactions contain less information. Finally, we show that the general optimal disclosure timing policy prescribes a relatively high disclosure threshold early on, but as time goes by without disclosure, the threshold becomes ever more lenient, up to a point where the policy leads to unraveling.



Suggested Citation:

Lee, Seung and Marinovic, Ivan, A Theory of Disclosure Timing (February 17, 2025). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 5149287, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5149287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5149287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Milton Abramowitz , Irene A Stegun
Handbook of Mathematical Functions With Formulas, Graphs, and Mathematical Tables Posted: 1964
Acharya , V Viral , Ilan Peter Demarzo , Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and the Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
Cyrus Aghamolla , Byeong-Je An
Voluntary Disclosure with Evolving News
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 140 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 53 Posted: 2021
Stephen P Baginski , L John , Lisa A Campbell , David S Hinson , Koo
Do Career Concerns Affect the Delay of Bad News Disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
723
RANK
481,162
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies