Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Technology in Enhancing Small Business Accounting Efficiency: A Case for Cloud-Based Solutions

39 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2025

Rahul Kumar Gupta

York St John University

Date Written: February 24, 2025

Abstract

Small businesses play a crucial role in economic growth but typically struggle with financial management issues due to limited resources and reliance on traditional accounting methods. Cloud accounting is a new trend that assists by introducing automation, real-time data access, scalability, and cost-effectiveness. Cloud solutions enable small businesses to automate financial processes, reduce errors, and improve decision-making. Despite the benefits, its use is not extensive due to security issues with data, complexity, and implementation cost. This study explains how the use of cloud-based accounting can be extended to enhance small business efficiency through the understanding of its advantages, issues, and adoption trends. Using secondary data, the research examines the factors that influence small business owners to use or not use cloud-based accounting. The findings provide implications for business owners, policymakers, and practitioners in the industry, highlighting the potential of cloud technology to improve financial management and business development.

Keywords: Small businesses, cloud-based accounting, financial management, automation, real-time data, scalability, cost efficiency, technology adoption

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Rahul Kumar, The Role of Technology in Enhancing Small Business Accounting Efficiency: A Case for Cloud-Based Solutions (February 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5151563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5151563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Cloud computing security and best practices Posted: 2020
A Cohen
Cloud accounting: A new era for small business financial management Posted: 2020
R K Gupta
The perceptions of CSR authenticity and their impact on brand image
SSRN Posted: 2025-02-18
R Kaplan , D Norton
Cloud accounting and its impact on business efficiency Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,609
RANK
157,252
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies