Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Characteristics and Value of Listed Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria, Moderated by Ownership Concentration

18 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Samaila Ishaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Latifat Abdulfatah Abdulsalam

NIGERIAN DEFENCE ACADEMY

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

NIGERIAN DEFENCE ACADEMY

Date Written: February 23, 2025

Abstract

This study is to examine the moderating role ownership concentration of the board characteristics and financial value of listed deposit money banks in Nigeria and to fills the gap of variation in value across different banks by determining the moderating effect of ownership concentration on board characteristics represented by board size, board independence and board gender. Value measured by Tobin' Q and Return on equity. The study adopted an ex-post factor research design. The population of the study was nine (14) deposit money banks listed on the Nigeria exchange (NGX) during the period 2014-2023. The study used (9) sample size of listed deposit money banks. Data obtained from the financial statement of sampled firms were Analyzed using random effect panel regression techniques. The result revealed that board size, gender and independence have a significant effect on relationship with value. The study recommends among others that the size of the board of direction of listed deposit money banks in Nigeria should be kept at the minimal level (5) allowed by regulations, non-executive directors should not be allowed beyond the stimulated regulations; and that the percentage of women on the board of directions of deposit money banks in Nigeria should be increased 30% as that will improve the general monitoring and thereby leading to improved financial value.

Declaration of Interest

Positive ethical clearance

Ethics Approval

Clear

Funder Statement

Authors

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege and Ishaya, Samaila and Abdulfatah Abdulsalam, Latifat and Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, Board Characteristics and Value of Listed Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria, Moderated by Ownership Concentration (February 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5152921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5152921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
O A Al-Farooque , W Buachoom , L Sun
Board, audit committee, ownership, and financial performance -emerging trends from Thailand
Pacific Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 81 Posted: 2020
S I M Amin , S M Nor
Board diversity and firm performance in the construction, manufacturing, and trading/services industries
Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance , volume 12 , p. 183 - 193 Posted: 2019
D B Adedeji , K A Soyinka , O M Sunday , E Adegoroye , E S Gbore
Corporate governance characteristics and timeliness of financial reporting in Nigeria
International Journal of Economics, Commerce and Management , volume VIII , issue 7 , p. 20 - 37 Posted: 2020
R Adesewa , E Promise
Audit committee attributes and audit report lag of quoted industrial www.rsisinternational.org companies in Nigeria
IOSR Journal of Business and Management , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
695
RANK
614,231
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies