Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Ideology Really Matter in Accounting Standard Setting? Evidence from the European Parliament

41 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2025

Fabian T. Albrecht

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: November 30, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the political economy of accounting regulation in the European Parliament, focusing on the role of ideology, constituent and special interests regarding the voting behaviour of politicians. Since there is a growing European environmental awareness developing into a pan-European ideology and contributing to the EU-integration process, the factors influencing the voting behaviour of politicians take on a new significance and increasingly interact with each other. Using the voting records on the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) debate, we find that politicians with strong ideological preferences tend to ignore the interests of their constituents, while those with moderate preferences act with these interests. Additionally, we show that politicians with expertise in economics and accounting are more sensitive to the pressure of constituent interests. Moreover, we find a more detailed influence of special interests on the voting behaviour of politicians. Politicians with expertise tend to reject all amendments as a matter of principle if they belong to a governing party. We complement previous literature and show that politicians with rising ideology tend to reject amendments in favour of more regulation and approve amendments in favour of less regulation. Our findings provide evidence on the complex interplay between politics, interest groups, and sustainability in the EU, and give insights into the factors that shape accounting regulation.

Keywords: accounting regulation, CSRD, environmental, EU, ideology, legislative process, new green deal, political economy, sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Albrecht, Fabian T. and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen, Does Ideology Really Matter in Accounting Standard Setting? Evidence from the European Parliament (November 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5153487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5153487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A M Allen
Agenda Setting at the FASV: Evidence from the Role of the FASAC
Havard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper , p. 15 - 42 Posted: 2018
J Bischof , H Daske , C J Sextroh
Why Do Politicians Intervene in Accounting Regulation? The Role of Ideology and Special Interests
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 589 - 642 Posted: 2020
T Bryder , D S Bell , C Lord
Party groups in the European Parliament and the changing recruitment patterns of MEPs
Transnational parties in the European Union Posted: 1998
A Buzogány , S Ćetković
Fractionalized but ambitious? Voting on energy and climate policy in the European Parliament
Journal of European Public Policy , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 1038 - 1056 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
326
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies