Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nominal Rigidities, Earnings Manipulation, and Securities Regulation

PBCSF-NIFR Research Paper

72 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2025 Last revised: 12 Oct 2025

Erica X. N. Li

Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business

Pengfei Wang

Peking University HSBC Business School

Jin Xie

Peking University HSBC Business School

Ji Zhang

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 25, 2025

Abstract

This paper documents a new fact and analyzes the theoretical underpinnings behind it: firms with sticky-output prices both misreport earnings more and pay higher borrowing costs prior to the passage of Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), but their misreporting frequency and borrowing costs drop immediately after SOX — both relative to the pre-SOX level and to flexible-price firms — a causal effect we identify using a difference-in-differences strategy. We develop a model of earnings manipulation with endogenous manipulation costs, in which product prices signal managers' private information about shocks to firm profits, and mimicking firms must set a price identical to that of the firms they mimic. The model organizes the evidence into a unified framework: managers' incentives to manipulate earnings increase when firms cannot adjust product prices, whereas stringent regulatory enforcement reduces these incentives. Our theory-based causal inference suggests that nominal rigidities can aggravate financial friction because of earnings manipulation by firm insiders.



Keywords: JEL Classification: E12, E44, G28, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Li, Erica X. N. and Wang, Pengfei and Xie, Jin and Zhang, Ji, Nominal Rigidities, Earnings Manipulation, and Securities Regulation (February 25, 2025). PBCSF-NIFR Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5155655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5155655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
E Anderson , N Jaimovich , D Simester
Price stickiness: Empirical evidence of the menu cost channel
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 813 - 826 Posted: 2015
E T Anderson , D I Simester
Price stickiness and customer antagonism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , issue 2 , p. 729 - 765 Posted: 2010
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , J D Kepler
Accounting quality and the transmission of monetary policy
Journal of Accounnting and Economics , volume 68 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , J D Kepler
Theory, research design assumptions, and causal inferences
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 2-3 , p. 366 - 373 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
274,044
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies