Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big-4 Audit Fee Increase and Strategic Switching by Client-Firms

61 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2025

Hua Christine Xin

University of South Alabama

Bharat Sarath

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Baolei Qi

Independent

Jerry Lin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The division of the market for audit services across the Big-4 (KPMG, PWC, D&T, and E&Y) and non-Big-4 (NB-4) auditors reflects both demand side effects (perceptions of higher Big-4 quality) and supply side effects (the difference in audit fees across these two auditor types). Using empirical evidence from long-term changes in Big-4 market shares over the period 2001-2015, we demonstrate a counter-intuitive result that a larger increase of audit fees by Big-4 auditors relative to NB-4 auditors (i.e., Big-4 audit fee premium) results in a lower likelihood of switching to an NB-4 auditor. By analyzing switching behavior across different industries and client firm’s asset quintiles, and by separating switches into resignations (auditor initiated or supply-side effects) as opposed to dismissal (client initiated or demand-side effects) we provide insights into the effects of different economic causes on the choice of a Big-4 auditor by client firms.

Keywords: Big-4, Market Share, Audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Xin, Hua Christine and Sarath, Bharat and Qi, Baolei and Qi, Baolei and Lin, Jerry, Big-4 Audit Fee Increase and Strategic Switching by Client-Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5159465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5159465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S Abidin , V Beattie , A Goodacre
Audit market structure, fees and choice in a period of structural change: Evidence from the UK-1998-2003
The British Accounting Review , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 187 - 206 Posted: 2010
T Amemiya
Qualitative response Models: A Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 1483 - 1536 Posted: 1981
T Amemiya
Advanced econometrics Posted: 1985
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
659
RANK
697,608
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies