Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Constructing a Polarity Based Dictionary for Financial Language

36 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2025

Lucy Li

University of Oxford

Date Written: May 19, 2023

Abstract

Extracting and quantifying features from noisy financial language is an extremely difficult task, especially without the availability of abundant computing resources. It is often difficult to assess whether language description on company performance adhere to the realities of financial metrics. Organizations and researchers would benefit from using a general-purpose financial language dictionary to quantify financial performance. Currently, the only set of dictionaries widely available is the Loughran McDonald [LM11] dictionary, but this resource only quantifies sentiment. We instead seek to develop open sourced toolkit that would allow researchers to dive deeper into the content of financial accounting texts. Our paper aims to develop such a dictionary over vocabulary from 87,834 management disclosure and analysis sections over the years 1998-2021. Using relevant financial indicators of the associated years, we show that the dictionaries we construct to statistically accurately reflect financial performance.

Keywords: financial dictionary, nlp, loughran mcdonald

Suggested Citation:

Li, Lucy, Constructing a Polarity Based Dictionary for Financial Language (May 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5162485 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5162485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Tim Loughran , Bill Mcdonald
When is a liability not a liability? textual analysis, dictionaries, and 10-ks
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 35 - 65 Posted: 2011-01
Gerald R Salancik , John R Meindl
Corporate attributions as strategic illusions of management control
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 238 - 254 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
322
RANK
708,207
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies