Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on the Process Involved in Mergers and Acquisitions of the Indian Banking Sector

Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Date Written: January 08, 2022

Abstract

When banks merge or acquire other financial institutions, they access the developed institutions' additional resources, a more significant geographic reach, and more workforce. To enhance commercial ties, it is advised that two different affiliations be recalled. Acquisitions are the norm, not the exception. In the current state of affairs, one company is buying another. M&A deals allow banks to grow their brand names, geographic reach, and responsibilities and give them the power to pitch to newly acquired records. An acquisition or merger in the Indian banking sector is nothing new. In this article, we intend to study the influence of M&A on the Indian banking industry and establish the motives behind the deals conducted in this market. The overview is supported by information gleaned from publications like books and magazines and online resources.

Keywords: Development, Indian Banking Sector, Mergers Strategy, Synergy, Development, Indian Banking Sector, Mergers Strategy, Synergy

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh, A Study on the Process Involved in Mergers and Acquisitions of the Indian Banking Sector (January 08, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167503
 Not Available for Download
8 References
International Bimonthly
Singh Sonia , & Das Subhankar
Impact of post-merger and acquisition activities on the financial performance of banks: a study of Indian private sector and public sector banks
Revista Espacios , volume 39 Posted: 2018
S Indrapriya
A Study on Merger and Acquisition in Banking Industries
IJLMH , volume 1 , issue 5 , p. 2581 - 5369 Posted: 2018
Ruchita Verma , Janaki Singh , Rathore
Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As) In the Banking Sector: A Comparative Review of The Indian and International Literature
Journal of Banking, Information Technology and Management , volume 15 , issue 1 Posted: 2018-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies