Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioural Investment Decision: A Study On Impact Of Emotional Biases Of Individual Investors On Determinants Of Investment Decision With Mediating Effect Of Financial Literacy (With Reference To Chennai City)

Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Rajeswari K

Govt. Nagarjuna Post Graduate College

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

The emotional biases of individual investors strongly influence their investment decision. Emotional biases such as Anxiety while investing in favorable investment avenues, Hope in expectation of higher returns, Depression while go through with previous loess, Fear of selecting improper investment items, Thrill in pumping flow of income in unproductive investment ventures. The investment decisions are determined by number of factors such as Expected return on investment, Conditions of financial statement, Past performance of the firm, Preferred investment time horizon, Safety associated with investment, minimizing risk, Study the portfolio investments of various market players and Reputation of a parent company. The study tries to examine the influence of emotional biases on determinants of investor’s investment decision with mediating role of their financial literacy level in Chennai city. The study used stratified probability sampling method, collected data from 280 investors from segregating Chennai into three dominant zones, North, South and Central zone. Both univariate and multivariate statistical techniques have been used to check the effect. The results shows fourteen Emotional Biases variables has been factorized into two dominant factors namely Jubilation and Anxiety Factor and Cheerfulness and Despondency Factor. The fourteen determinants of investor’s investment decision have been factorized into three dominant factors namely Profitability and Performance Factor (PPF), Timing and Associated Safety Factor (TASF) and Reputation and Fluctuation Factor (RFF). There is significant influence of emotional biases factors on overall determinants of investor’s investment decision. The association between emotional biases groups and investment decision groups shows highest emotional biases leads to highest investment decision. Financial literacy plays significant role in explaining investor’s investment decision.

Keywords: Anxiety, Depression, Jubilation, Cheerfulness, Despondency and Profitability, Keywords: Anxiety, Depression, Jubilation, Cheerfulness, Despondency and Profitability.

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh and K, Rajeswari, Behavioural Investment Decision: A Study On Impact Of Emotional Biases Of Individual Investors On Determinants Of Investment Decision With Mediating Effect Of Financial Literacy (With Reference To Chennai City) (January 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167550
 Not Available for Download
14 References
A Bihari , M Dash , K Muduli , A Kumar , E Mulat-Weldemeskel , S Luthra
Does cognitive biased knowledge influence investor decisions? An empirical investigation using machine learning and artificial neural network
VINE Journal of Information and Knowledge Management Systems Posted: 2023
M Ahmad
The role of cognitive heuristic-driven biases in investment management activities and market efficiency: a research synthesis
International Journal of Emerging Markets Posted: 2022
M Ahmad , S Z A Shah
Overconfidence heuristic-driven bias in investment decision-making and performance: mediating effects of risk perception and moderating effects of financial literacy
Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 90 Posted: 2022
T Hossain , P Siddiqua
Exploring the influence of behavioral aspects on stock investment decision-making: a study on Bangladeshi individual investors
PSU Research Review Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
119
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies