Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Merger And Acquisition: A Study On Impact Of M And An On Customers Of Public Sector Banks With Reference To Bengaluru City

9 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Date Written: January 01, 2022

Abstract

The researcher examined mergers and acquisitions of banking industries in India following independence. Mergers and acquisitions are recognised as crucial to a company's success. M&A benefits greatly improve and support long-term growth strategies. The study adopted a descriptive research method to determine the influence of merger and acquisition on public sector bank customer satisfaction. Two elements have been studied in order to identify the impact of merger and acquisition as well as customer satisfaction as a result of merger and acquisition. According to the findings, the 14 IMAPSB elements have been factored into two separate factors: Enhancement and Growth Factor and Innovation and Goodwill Factor. Most of the time mergers and acquisition brings the synergy to the Indian banks.

Keywords: Strategies, Customer Satisfaction, Enhancement, Goodwill, Innovation and Synergy

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh, Merger And Acquisition: A Study On Impact Of M And An On Customers Of Public Sector Banks With Reference To Bengaluru City (January 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5167566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Acquisitions Mergers , C L Cooper , S Finkelstein
Advances in Mergers and Acquisitions (Advances in Mergers and Acquisitions Emerald Publishing Limited , volume 35 , p. 67 - 80
M Mclelland , R Goldsmith , D Mcmahon
Consumer reactions to the merger: Understanding the role of pre-merger brands
J Brand Manag , volume 21 , p. 615 - 634 Posted: 2014
K Mensah , N O Madichie , G Mensah , G Awini
Consumer intentions, reactance and the marketing implications of policy induced mergers and acquisitions in financial services
International Journal of Bank Marketing Posted: 2022
I F Putra , N A Windasari , G Hindrawati , Belgiawan
P.F. IS TWO ALWAYS BETTER THAN ONE? Customer Perception on the Merger of Start-up Decacorn Companies
J. Open Innov. Technol. Mark. Complex , volume 7 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
257
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies