Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advertisement Effectiveness: "Impact Of Celebrity Endorsement And Advertisement Effectiveness On Consumer Purchase Behaviour"

17 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Date Written: September 09, 2023

Abstract

Advertisement is the key for promoting any product or service to the consumer. It greatly attracts consumer to purchase product from the marketer. The usage of celebrity in advertainment strongly influence the purchase behaviour of consumer in long run. The presence of celebrity in an advertisement stimulate consumer and possessing him to purchase the product or service. The objective of the present study is to assess the role of celebrity endorsement and advertisement effectiveness in influencing consumer purchase behaviour in the city of Bangaluru. The study adopted stratified random sampling method and collected around 240 samples after segregating the city into four zones. To assess the celebrity endorsement 12 determinant have been observed which were factorised into two dominant factors, while advertisement effectiveness has been measured with eight variables which were factorised into two dominant factors namely Glorious and Transparency Factor and Hallmark and Significance Factor. The consumer purchase behaviour have been measured using ten determinants and are factorised into two factors namely Engrossment and Apprising Factor and Willingness and Involvement Factor. The outcome of multiple regression and SEM shows that both celebrity endorsement and advertisement effectiveness have significant influence on Consumer Purchase Intention of Celebrity Endorsed Product. It is suggested that market need to focus more on faithfulness and integrity of the advertisement which in turn attract and uphold the existing customer in long run. To enhance the reaches of the advertisement among the consumers, marketer should focus on positivity of the product contents.

Keywords: Promotion, Endorsement, Glorious, Transparency, Hallmark and Engrossment

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh, Advertisement Effectiveness: "Impact Of Celebrity Endorsement And Advertisement Effectiveness On Consumer Purchase Behaviour" (September 09, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167560 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5167560
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
H Cocker , R Mardon , K L Daunt
Social media influencers and transgressive celebrity endorsement in consumption community contexts
European Journal of Marketing , volume 55 , issue 7 , p. 1841 - 1872 Posted: 2021
R R Deshbhag , B C Mohan
Study on influential role of celebrity credibility on consumer risk perceptions
Journal of Indian Business Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 92 Posted: 2020
O Freire , F Quevedo-Silva , D Senise , P Scrivano
The effectiveness of celebrity endorsement in aspiring new celebrities: Examining the effects of brand, congruence, charisma and overexposure
RAUSP Management Journal , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 289 - 303 Posted: 2018
N Jiang , K W Khong , J L Gan , J J Turner , S Teng , J A Xavier
Impact of athlete performance and brand social value on product involvement: a mediation role of celebrity endorsement in social media
Asia-Pacific Journal of Business Administration Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
218
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies