Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Factor Analysis On Effect Of Freebies On Indian Economy With Special Reference To Karnataka

Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

The research paper is prepared to know the micro and macro factors which influence on the freebies given by the state of Karnataka. The paper if focused on the demographic factors, economic factors, standard of living of people, mindset of the tax payers. This paper also focusses on the GDP of the state as a whole. The political parties in India are only focusing on the winning of elections by providing the free schemes to the people, they are least bother about the economy, growth and development of the states. People of the states will be getting short term benefits initially where they don't mind that the free scheme what they are receiving is their own money where the paid as tax. Public money is been given as the freebie schemes, but people have very less awareness towards the progress of the state or the nation.

Keywords: GDP, National Income, Micro Factors, Macro Factors, Democracy

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh, A Factor Analysis On Effect Of Freebies On Indian Economy With Special Reference To Karnataka (January 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167544
 Not Available for Download
5 References
R Javadekar
Freebies-The political path to economic disorder Posted: 2022
A Verma , S Saxena , M B Alam
Changing dynamics of voting pattern affecting the psyche of Voters by offering freebies
Journal of Pharmaceutical Negative Results¦ , volume 13 , issue 3 Posted: 2022
S Padmanabhan
To take or not to take: is the freebie culture in Tamil Nadu elections a threat to Indian democracy?
Asian Journal of Political Science , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 237 Posted: 2021
A Verma , S Saxena , M B Alam
Changing dynamics of voting pattern affecting the psyche of Voters by offering freebies
Journal of Pharmaceutical Negative Results¦ , volume 13 , issue 3 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
380
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies