Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consumer Behaviour towards White and Brown Consumer Durables -A Study of Literature Review

Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Date Written: January 08, 2023

Abstract

Recent development in consumer durables sector have narrowed down consumer goods into brown and white goods. It is utmost importance for the marketers to understand consumer behaviour & attitudes towards purchase of these goods. All marketing activities are directed towards a single destination called customer satisfaction. Consumer behaviour denotes the process of consumer's emotional behavioural and physical responses towards purchase of product and services. Get closer than even to your customer, so close that you tell them what they need well before they realize it them. India has become the hot spot among global retailers to market their goods. In India durable goods has reached in nook and corner of country from urban hyper markets to rural bounds.

Keywords: Life style, emotion, attitudes, households, global markets

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh, Consumer Behaviour towards White and Brown Consumer Durables -A Study of Literature Review (January 08, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167564
 Not Available for Download
9 References
R Bhuvaneswari , Prakash Babu
A study on users behaviour towards durable goods in Srirangam
International Journal of Advanced Research in Management and Social Science , volume 3 , issue 11 , p. 133 - 141 Posted: 2014
Parimaladevi Hemalatha
Marketing spur in purchase of brown durable goods form consumer perspective e in Erode district of Tamilnadu
International Journal of Business and Administration research Review , volume 2 , issue 21 , p. 19 - 25 Posted: 2018
R Karthika , Senthil Vijai Anand , Monisha Kumar
Factors influencing consumer buying behaviour towards selected white goods in Trichy district
International Journal of Research Culture Society , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 218 - 223 Posted: 2018
E T Mashao , Nita Sukdeo
Factors that influence consumer behaviour in the purchase of durable household products
proceedings of the international conference on Industry Engineering and Operations Management Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
96
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies