Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of E-Commerce on Women Empowerment During Covid 19: An Analytical Study

Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Date Written: January 08, 2023

Abstract

Business through E-commerce site is attaining new heights in India. It is not only a platform for social networking but also a potential platform for online business. People can see a surge in E-commerce during the COVID-19 pandemic. Women are entering E-Commerce based entrepreneurial sectors. Due of the flexibility of the work and the significance of economic empowerment. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, this paper explains how E-commerce enables women to gain economic autonomy. They are starting to become business entrepreneurs because they are facing financial issues, instead because they have begun to see the value of economic empowerment. Women may have the chance to use their power if they are empowered. Being able to stand with men in dignity might be beneficial to them. This paper outlines the benefits of E-commerce. The respondents for the study have been taken from Bangalore region. This study identifies the drivers of women's participation in E-commerce as well as the challenges they encounter.

Keywords: E-commerce, Women, Empowerment, Economic empowerment

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh, Impact of E-Commerce on Women Empowerment During Covid 19: An Analytical Study (January 08, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167555
 Not Available for Download
14 References
International Bimonthly , volume 14 Posted: 2023-08
International Bimonthly , volume 14 Posted: 2023-08
International Bimonthly , volume 14 , issue 79 Posted: 2023-08
M Akhter
Empowering Women through E-commerce-Conduit for Women Entrepreneurs in Bangladesh
IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM) , volume 19 , issue 8 , p. 37 - 47 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
84
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies