Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CBDC:Empirical Study On Determinants Of CBDC Usage Purpose Among Consumers

9 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Date Written: September 09, 2023

Abstract

The initiative from the government of India in making India into a digitally vibrant nation is highly admirable. India economic growth over the decade is raising at higher rate, it due to adoption of digitalization in every part of economy from banking, business, and international payment. Banks are updating according to needs and demands of the consumers providing amenable services at finger tips of the consumers. From small vendor to high business transitions are carry forward with the help of digital transition or digital currency. The primary objective of the study is determining CBDC usage purpose among consumers. The study used convenient sampling method and covered 160 banking consumers using digital banking. The findings of the study show Determinants of CBDC Usage Purpose among Consumers have been segregated into two dominant dimensions namely Payment Terminal and Financial Statibility Factor which dealing with cost of using online banking, usage of the same at all branches both nationally and internationally and security of the banking. The second factor is Usage and Payment Efficiency Factor which deals with usage of the digital banking, efficiency of the payment over the geographical location and ability of use the same without internet connections. Consumer Perception on CBDC have been segregated into two dominant dimensions namely Expectancy and Performance Factor which deals with expectancy of the consumers over usage of CBDC, knowledge on using digital currency and trust over the banking while using digital currency. A positive and significant impact of Consumer Perception on CBDC on Determinants of CBDC Usage Purpose among Consumers has been identified.

Keywords: Payments, Digital, Security, Statibility and Security

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh, CBDC:Empirical Study On Determinants Of CBDC Usage Purpose Among Consumers (September 09, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5167562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
R S Samudrala , S K Yerchuru
Central bank digital currency: risks, challenges and design considerations for India
CSI Transactions on ICT , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 245 - 249 Posted: 2021
K Ahiabenu
Unpacking Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) Implementation Challenges and Risks
Exploring the Dark Side of FinTech and Implications of Monetary Policy , p. 207 - 231 Posted: 2023
N Agarwal
Central bank digital currency and alternative currencies: parallel paradigms
International Journal of Blockchains and Cryptocurrencies , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 374 - 388 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
192
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies