Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Peer Effect of Anti-Bribery Law Enforcement on Accounting Quality: Evidence from U.S. Multinationals

43 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2025

Olivier Greusard

University of Quebec at Montreal (UQAM) - Université du Québec à Montréal

Pramuan Bunkanwanicha

ESCP Business School

Abstract

This study investigates the peer effect of anti-bribery law enforcement on the accounting quality of multinational enterprises (MNEs). Using hand-collected data on Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) enforcement actions from 1978 to 2015, we find that the revelation of a corruption case within an industry significantly improves the accruals quality of uninvestigated peer MNEs. In contrast, domestic firms do not exhibit notable changes in information quality. The effect is stronger in cases involving accounting provisions and weaker when alternative resolution mechanisms are employed. These findings are robust across different control group specifications and alternative measures of accruals quality. Our results highlight the external shock of anti-bribery enforcement as a catalyst for peer MNEs to enhance their information transparency, underscoring the broader influence of regulatory actions on global business practices.

Keywords: MNEs, Peer effect, Anti-bribery, Corruption, FCPA enforcement, Accounting quality

Suggested Citation:

Greusard, Olivier and Bunkanwanicha, Pramuan, The Peer Effect of Anti-Bribery Law Enforcement on Accounting Quality: Evidence from U.S. Multinationals. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5170900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5170900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Ades , R Di Tella
The New Economics of Corruption: A Survey and some New Results
Polit. Stud , volume 45 , p. 496 - 515 Posted: 1997
J Arlen
Corporate Criminal Liability: Theory and Evidence
NYU Law and Econ. Res. Pap , p. 11 - 25 Posted: 2012
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and Their Remediation on Accrual Quality
The Acc. Rev , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
P Bardhan
Corruption and Development: A Review of Issues
J. of Econ. Lit , volume 35 , p. 1320 - 1346 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
290
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies