Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Acquisition under Moral Hazard and Disappointment Aversion

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 181

45 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2025

Hoa Ho

LMU Munich School of Management

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: July 15, 2024

Abstract

We propose a theory of information acquisition based on disappointment aversion. We extend a standard principal-agent model with moral hazard by assuming that the agent compares performance outcomes to reference points and experiences disappointment when the performance falls short of these reference points. We show that the optimal contract is characterized by a performance target, where the principal acquires additional information if the agent’s performance is below the target. Our findings suggest that the optimal performance target depends on the agent’s reference points and degree of disappointment aversion, as well as any contracting limitations faced by the principal. Overall, our theory provides a psychological explanation for the commonly observed conditional information acquisition where firms engage in lower-tail monitoring. 

Keywords: disappointment aversion, performance target, lower-tail monitoring, information acquisition

JEL Classification: D82, D86, M52, M12

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Hoa and Hofmann, Christian, Information Acquisition under Moral Hazard and Disappointment Aversion (July 15, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 181, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5181517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5181517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J Abeler , A Falk , L Goette , D Huffman
Reference points and effort provision
American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 470 - 492 Posted: 2011
S Baiman , J S Demski
Economically optimal performance evaluation and control systems
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 184 , issue 220 Posted: 1980
S Baiman , J S Demski
1980b. Variance analysis procedures as motivational devices
Management Science , volume 26 , p. 840 - 848
S Baiman , M V Rajan
On the design of unconditional monitoring systems in agencies
The Accounting Review , p. 217 - 229 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
365
RANK
724,439
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies