Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Industry Architecture of Audit: Establishing a Foundation and Forecasting the Impact of Artificial Intelligence

53 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2025

Sebastian Herbert Fuchs

Tecnológico de Monterrey - Escuela de Negocios - Campus Guadalajara; Oxford Brookes University

Tim Vorley

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Cristian Gherhes

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The digital world has permeated the audit industry but is still far from having a transformational impact. This paper examines the advent of artificial intelligence (AI) in audit through the lens of industry architecture. This allows us to capture the value complexity of audit and, on this established base, to forecast the impact that fundamental changes have on this system. We present a qualitative study based on 26 semi-structured interviews with participants of the industry architecture of audit. This research carves out the antecedents and forecasts the potential impact of artificial intelligence (AI) in the industry architecture of audit. The findings carve out the intricacies of audit, highlighting tensions that impact the industry’s digital transformation towards an integrated ecosystem that appears to be a possibility with AI. We amend the discussions around industry architecture and aggregate level constructs of strategy, digital transformation, and AI (adoption) in the professional services sector by looking at the context of audit.

Keywords: industry architecture, digitalization, Digital Transformation, artificial intelligence, professional services firms

Suggested Citation:

Fuchs, Sebastian Herbert and Vorley, Tim and Gherhes, Cristian, The Industry Architecture of Audit: Establishing a Foundation and Forecasting the Impact of Artificial Intelligence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5185224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5185224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
142 References
R Adner
Ecosystem as Structure
Journal of Management , volume 43 , p. 39 - 58 Posted: 2017
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of big data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
M G Alles , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Feasibility and economics of continuous assurance
Auditing , volume 21 , p. 125 - 138 Posted: 2002
R Amit , C Zott
Crafting Business Architecture: the Antecedents of Business Model Design
Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal , volume 9 , p. 331 - 350 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
142 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies