Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Finance Practices in the Oil and Gas Exploration Industry: Financing, Dividends, and ESG Considerations

29 Pages Posted: 22 May 2025

Yihan Wang

Independent

Date Written: April 06, 2023

Abstract

Oil and natural gas are the world's primary source of energy which have a significant impact on the global economy. In this report we focus on exploration and production industry, and we examine three corporate finance elements: Financing policy, Dividend policy, ESG to investigate the practice of existing theories.

Keywords: Financing policy, Dividend policy, ESG, Exploration and Production Industry

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Yihan, Corporate Finance Practices in the Oil and Gas Exploration Industry: Financing, Dividends, and ESG Considerations (April 06, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5187979 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5187979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
M Baker , J Wurgler
Market timing and capital structur e
The journal of finance , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2002
M Baker , J Wurgler
Market timing and capital structur e
The journal of finance , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2002
J Berk , P Demarzo
Corporate Finance , p. 424 - 588 Posted: 2011
H Chen , M Z Frank
Equilibrium Defaultable Corporat e Debt and Investment , p. 23 - 35 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
261
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies