Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate-related Disclosures, Market Discipline, and Banks' Risk-Taking

52 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2025 Last revised: 19 Jul 2025

Lucas Mahieux

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: July 18, 2025

Abstract

In this paper, I shed light on the impact of climate-related disclosures on banks' investment and risk-taking decisions. To that end, I develop a model in which banks raise deposits from socially responsible depositors that are partially insured. Brown banks finance projects that generate negative externalities and may be exposed to financial climate risk, whereas green banks invest in projects that do not generate externalities but may still be financially risky. Consistent with the financial-materiality perspective, climate-related disclosures provide information about the climate risk of brown banks' projects. In the absence of competition among banks, climate-related disclosures provide market discipline, decrease the riskiness of brown banks, and increase social welfare. In contrast, when banks compete in the deposit market, climate-related disclosures may increase or decrease the risk of the banks' projects. While climate-related disclosures may deter brown banks from investing in risky projects, they may increase the leverage of green banks and may therefore provide incentives to green banks to invest in riskier projects. Hence, climate-related disclosures may lead to an increase in the size of green projects being financed, but also to an increase in the riskiness of green banks, and to a decrease in social welfare. Overall, my results highlight the ambiguous effects of climate-related disclosures on banks' investment decisions.

Keywords: Banks, Climate-related disclosures, Climate risks, Market discipline, Risk-taking, Financial materiality

Suggested Citation:

Mahieux, Lucas, Climate-related Disclosures, Market Discipline, and Banks' Risk-Taking (July 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5189235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks? financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
C Aghamolla , B.-J An
Mandatory vs. voluntary esg disclosure, efficiency, and real effects Posted: 2023
J Andreoni
Impure altruism and donations to public goods: A theory of warm-glow giving
The economic journal , volume 100 , issue 401 , p. 464 - 477 Posted: 1990
D Ardia , K Bluteau , K Boudt , K Inghelbrecht
Climate change concerns and the performance of green vs. brown stocks
Management Science , volume 69 , issue 12 , p. 7607 - 7632 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
676
RANK
552,669
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies