Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information acquisition in investment decisions

43 Pages Posted: 1 May 2025

Samuel C. A. Pereira

Universidade do Porto - Faculdade de Economia (FEP)

Date Written: November 10, 2022

Abstract

This paper studies a capital budgeting model in which a manager is not a priori informed about the project's profitability but has to incur a cost to learn it. If the cost of information is high, inducing information acquisition reduces underinvestment and increases informational rents relative to when the manager is a priori informed about the project profitability. If the cost of information is small, deterring information acquisition is costly because it is necessary to prevent the manager from clandestinely gathering information to reduce his effort and deliver only the minimum cash flow required. In projects more dependent on effort, there is a cost of information cut-off above (below) which the principal prefers to offer a contract that deters (induces) information acquisition. In projects more dependent on specific knowledge, such a cut-off does not exist when the probability of the project being profitable is high. In this case, the principal prefers to accept the project without information instead of inducing information acquisition to prevent a type I error.

Keywords: information acquisition, moral hazard, adverse selection, information accuracy, information precision JEL Classication numbers: M41, D82

Suggested Citation:

Pereira, Samuel C. A., Information acquisition in investment decisions (November 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5194208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5194208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R Antle , G Eppen
Credit rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 162 - 174 Posted: 1985
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
Capital budgeting, the hold-up problem, and information system design
Management Science , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 216 Posted: 2000
A Arya , B Mittendorf , R Ramanan
In defense of limited manufacturing cost control: Disciplining acquisition of private information by suppliers
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 49 Posted: 2022
T Baldenius
Delegated investment decisions and private benets of control
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 4 , p. 909 - 930 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
183
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies