Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolving Make-or-Buy Decision: Strategic Concurrent Sourcing and Capacity Disclosures

32 Pages Posted: 2 May 2025

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Ram Ramanan

Indian School of Business

Date Written: March 25, 2025

Abstract

The once binary make-or-buy choice in firms' sourcing has evolved in recent years into what is often a make-and-buy decision where the same input is both produced internally and procured externally. While production complementarities and risk mitigation are often explanations for such concurrent sourcing, we present a different explanation, one rooted in firms' strategic positioning and intrinsically tied to voluntary disclosure of capacity choices. In the setting, a firm that chooses solely to make internally can maximize cost savings but finds itself pricing away such efficiency gains via intense retail competition. A firm that chooses solely to buy externally can rein in its competitive tendencies but also finds its input prices excessive. By choosing concurrent sourcing, a firm can keep average costs low (relying on external supply sparingly) but can also credibly commit to reining in aggressive retail pricing due to modestly higher marginal costs. Importantly, this optimal middle ground in sourcing is possible only if the firm discloses its limited capacity: having observed the firm's capacity, a supplier is restrained in its pricing power but nonetheless secures modest markups. These markups, in turn, limit the intensity of competition while retaining low average costs for the firm. Taken together, our results underscore the importance of both strategic considerations and disclosure practices in understanding the use of concurrent sourcing.

Keywords: Capacity, Competition, Disclosure, Make vs. Buy, Outsourcing

Declaration of Interest

-

Ethics Approval

-

Funder Statement

-

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Mittendorf, Brian and Ramanan, Ram, The Evolving Make-or-Buy Decision: Strategic Concurrent Sourcing and Capacity Disclosures (March 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5198700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5198700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
398
RANK
552,669
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies