Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Working from Home Impact Audit Quality? Evidence from Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions During Covid-19

52 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2025

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Sung-Yuan (Mark) Cheng

University of South Florida

Nargess Golshan

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Catalyzed by the COVID-19 pandemic, many audit firms announced large-scale plans to adopt work-from-home (WFH) policies. It is unclear how this arrangement would affect audit quality. We exploit county-level non-pharmaceutical interventions, such as shelter-in-place orders and lockdowns, that exogenously increased local auditors' WFH practices. We use a difference-in-differences research design to compare audit engagements that were affected by these policies to those that were not, including those within the same office. We find that WFH is associated with higher audit quality measured by discretionary accruals and going-concern opinions. We also find some evidence that these results are stronger for clients of Big-Six auditors and clients with lower tangible assets. Furthermore, audit fees are higher among auditors impacted by WFH policies. Overall, these findings improve our understanding of the implications of WFH policies for audit quality during COVID-19 and provide useful information for audit firms, audit committees, and regulators.

Keywords: Working from Home, Remote Audits, Audit Quality, COVID-19, Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions

Suggested Citation:

Causholli, Monika and Cheng, Sung-Yuan (Mark) and Golshan, Nargess, Does Working from Home Impact Audit Quality? Evidence from Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions During Covid-19. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5200978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5200978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
J D Angrist , G W Imbens , D B Rubin
Identification of causal effects using instrumental variables
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 91 , issue 434 , p. 444 - 455 Posted: 1996
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2008
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
484
RANK
76,484
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies