Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Assurance Unveiled: A Stakeholder Model and Its Relationship with Cooperative Compliance

Tilburg Law School Research Paper

45 Pages Posted: 5 May 2025

Hans Gribnau

Tilburg Law School

Lisette E. C. J. M. van der Hel

Nyenrode Business University

Maarten Sigle

Nyenrode Business University

Date Written: April 04, 2025

Abstract

The increasing focus on the tax behaviour of large organizations (mainly multinational corporations) and the introduction of new regulatory strategies, such as cooperative compliance, has led to the introduction of a new academic and practical field, namely tax assurance. While we see the term 'tax assurance' being used more and more, we also note that it is not used consistently by the various stakeholders within the context of tax. As a result, different stakeholders may have different perceptions and expectations of tax assurance, which can negatively affect cooperation between them and in turn, for example, limit tax administrations in effectively supervising large organizations. In this contribution we therefore explain and define the concept of tax assurance, how it differs from assurance in the auditing context, its relationship to tax certainty and the role that the so-called tax control framework plays to provide verifiable tax assurance. We also develop a stakeholder model of tax assurance that identifies all relevant stakeholders and highlights their importance regarding tax assurance. Furthermore, we describe how the field of tax assurance can benefit tax administrations, as one of the main stakeholders. We close with a discussion and an agenda for future research on this subject.

Keywords: Tax assurance, Tax certainty, Cooperative compliance, Tax control framework, stakeholder theory

Suggested Citation:

Gribnau, Hans and J. M. van der Hel, Lisette E. C. and Sigle, Maarten, Tax Assurance Unveiled: A Stakeholder Model and Its Relationship with Cooperative Compliance (April 04, 2025). Tilburg Law School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5205547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5205547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
B Ackers
Who provides corporate social responsibility (CSR) assurance and what are the implications of the various assurance practices?
Journal of Economic and Financial Sciences , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 144 Posted: 2015
P Antonetti , M Anesa
Consumer reactions to corporate tax strategies: The role of political ideology
Journal of Business Research , volume 74 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2017
C Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
I Ayres , J Braithwaite
Responsive regulation: Transcending the deregulation Debate Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
330,062
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies