Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Auditor Selection

43 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2025

Peter Achim

University of York

Deniz Kattwinkel

University College London - Department of Economics

Jan Knoepfle

Queen Mary University of London - School of Economics and Finance

Alexandra Scherf

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE); Harvard Business School

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

How do private interactions between auditors and clients shape auditor selection and audit quality in competitive markets? We develop an empirically grounded economic model of auditor selection in which auditors compete for audit engagements by offering fees. Auditors differ in the match-specific interpersonal chemistry with the client, a quality that influences audit process efficiency and the auditor's likelihood of certifying financial reports. We find that the structure of the selection process and the resulting audit quality depends crucially on the value of chemistry in equilibrium. If this value is low, then the audit fee becomes a dominant factor in the client's choice of auditor, leading to lower fees and higher audit quality on average in equilibrium. Conversely, if the value from chemistry is high, then the firm prioritizes good chemistry with the auditor, resulting in lower overall audit quality and higher fees.

Keywords: Accounting research, economic theory, audit quality, auditor selection

Suggested Citation:

Achim, Peter and Kattwinkel, Deniz and Knoepfle, Jan and Scherf, Alexandra, A Theory of Auditor Selection (February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5212479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5212479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Labour government full speed ahead on audit reform
Accountancy Age Posted: 2024-07
V Beattie , A Goodacre , K Pratt , J Stevenson
The determinants of audit fees-evidence from the voluntary sector
Accounting and Business Research , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 243 - 274 Posted: 2001
A Bedford , M Bugeja , R Czernkowski , D Bond
Is the effect of shared auditors driven by shared audit partners? the case of m&as
The British Accounting Review , volume 55 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
S Bhattacharjee , J O Brown
The impact of management alumni affiliation and persuasion tactics on auditors' internal control judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 97 - 115 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,069
RANK
418,259
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies