Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intelligent Assessment of Going Concern in Listed Companies Synergistic Application of Social Network Analysis and Machine Learning

27 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2025

ZhenQuan Shi

Tiangong University

Yu Guo

Shanghai Lixin University of Accounting and Finance

Tairan Kevin Huang

University of Wollongong

Abstract

The assessment and prediction of a client's capability as a going concern is a pivotal aspect of advancing auditing theory and practice. A key challenge lies in identifying enterprises that encounter significant going-concern issues among those deemed at risk. This study illustrates a synergistic application of social network analysis and machine learning (SNAML) for the precise prediction of going-concern status. We perform textual analysis on auditors' reports to extract a set of keywords associated with going-concern problems. Subsequently, we establish category labels through eigenvector analysis, filtering out annotation indicators and representative industries. Within our sample of Chinese listed companies (2017-2022), we employ Fisher-Score dimensionality reduction to refine input variables and exclude outliers. Ultimately, a random forest model is developed with the accuracy rate of 98.71%. Further evaluation with BP neural networks and logistic regression models indicates that these models also exhibit improved accuracy following input optimization. This research makes substantial contributions to both auditing theory and practice. Theoretically, it develops a classification metric for identifying companies with elevated going-concern risks. Practically, it highlights the feasibility of leveraging machine learning models with observable inputs to produce precise and actionable predictions regarding a company's going-concern status.

Keywords: Social Network, Singular Value Decomposition (SVD), Random Forest Model, Going Concern

Suggested Citation:

Shi, ZhenQuan and Guo, Yu and Huang, Tairan Kevin, Intelligent Assessment of Going Concern in Listed Companies Synergistic Application of Social Network Analysis and Machine Learning. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5215298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5215298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
E Carson , N L Fargher , M A Geiger , C S Lennox , K Raghunandan , M Willekens
Audit reporting for going-concern uncertainty: A research synthesis , volume 32 , p. 353 - 384 Posted: 2013
K Menon , D D Williams
Investor reaction to going concern audit reports
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 6 , p. 2075 - 2105 Posted: 2010
D Dhaliwal , P N Michas , V Naiker , D Sharma
Greater reliance on major customers and auditor going-concern opinions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 188 Posted: 2020
L D Maso , G J Lobo , F Mazzi , L Paugam
Implications of the joint provision of CSR assurance and financial audit for auditors' assessment of going-concern risk
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 1248 - 1289 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies