Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Axioms of Depreciation Methods

29 Pages Posted: 3 May 2025

Eiko Arata

Keio University - Faculty of Business and Commerce

Toru Hokari

Keio University - Faculty of Economics

Abstract

This paper aims to provide a theoretical foundation of what is known as “ Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP),” focusing on depreciation. It is widely accepted that a depreciation method should be rational and systematic. There are many possible depreciation methods; however, only a few are used in practice, such as the straight-line method, the declining-balance method, the sum-of-the-years’ digits method, and the fair value measurement. We investigate through the axiomatic approach in what sense these depreciation methods can be considered rational and systematic. We provide a practical interpretation for each axiom examined in this paperand relate the axioms to accounting principles. Interestingly, it turns out that the straight-line method satisfies all axioms but consistency considered in the paper. Since the players are not humans in the model studied in the paper, it is not so clear whether the axiom of core selection is desirable or not in this context. Our analysis providesa positive answer to this question. Namely, we show that three appealing axioms, population-monotonicity, the final year reasonableness, and conservatism, jointly imply core selection.

Keywords: Axiomatic approach, Cooperative games, Depreciation

Suggested Citation:

Arata, Eiko and Hokari, Toru, Axioms of Depreciation Methods. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5240563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5240563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Accounting Principles Board Statement No. 4: Basic concepts and accounting principles underlying financial statements of business enterprises Posted: 1970
J Aparicio , J Sánchez-Soriano
Depreciation games
Annals of Operations Research , volume 158 , issue 1 , p. 205 - 218 Posted: 2008
E Arata , T Shimogawa , T Inohara
Analysis of depreciation methods based on cooperative game theory: Focusing on the straight-line method
International Game Theory Review. Advance online publication Posted: 2024
B V Balachandran , R T Ramakrishnan
Joint cost allocation: A unified approach
The Accounting Review , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 96 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
261
RANK
819,493
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies