Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Study of Financial Analysis of Jet Airways and IndiGO

International Journal of Scientific Research and Engineering Development (IJSRED), Volume 3, Issue 5, Pp. 438-442, Oct 2020

5 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Sejalben Makwana

The CVM University

Date Written: October 04, 2020

Abstract

Aviation industry is one of the growing industries in India. However, in recent years many companies in the industry are struggling for the survival. The main objective of this research is to compare the financial data of the two Airlines of Aviation Industry on the base of Annual Reports of Jet Airways and IndiGo. The present study analyzes the profitability of the Air India which is Government owned company and Indigo Air lines which is private sector company.

Keywords: Aviation Industry, Financial Analysis and Financial Performance

Suggested Citation:

Makwana, Sejalben, A Comparative Study of Financial Analysis of Jet Airways and IndiGO (October 04, 2020). International Journal of Scientific Research and Engineering Development (IJSRED), Volume 3, Issue 5, Pp. 438-442, Oct 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Ali S
A Comparative Study of the Financial Performance of Air India Corporation and Indian Airlines Corporation Posted: 1994
Posted: 2011
M Parmar
Procurement and Development Practices In Selected Airline Companies in India Posted: 2016
V Thenmozhi
Financial Performance of Indian Airlines and Air India Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
324
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies