Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Expected Loss Model and Model-Based Regulation: Unintended Effects on Income Smoothing

30 Pages Posted: 18 May 2025

Mariana González-Alzueta

University of Oviedo

Francisco González

Universidad de Oviedo

Abstract

We analyze how the adoption of the expected credit loss (ECL) model by European banks in January 2018 affected income smoothing through loan loss provisions depending on the use of internal ratings-based (IRB) models. Using a difference-in-differences (DID) approach on a sample of 2,280 banks from 26 European countries, we find that IRB banks increased income smoothing relative to banks using standardized models after the adoption of the ECL model. These results hold after controlling for bank listing status, the type of supervisory authority, and a comprehensive set of control variables related to the capital management and risk-taking hypotheses.

Keywords: Income smoothing, Loan-loss provisions, Expected loss model, IFRS 9, IRB

Suggested Citation:

González-Alzueta, Mariana and González, Francisco, The Expected Loss Model and Model-Based Regulation: Unintended Effects on Income Smoothing. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5258906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5258906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
References
J Abad , J Suarez
The procyclicality of expected credit loss provisions
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP13135 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , K V Subramanian
Bankruptcy codes and innovation
Rev. Financ. Stud , volume 22 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
A S Ahmed , D Takeda , S Thomas
Bank LLP: A reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
J. of Account. and Econ , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
229
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies