Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
With a Grain of Salt: Investor Reactions to Uncertain News and (Non)Disclosure

62 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025 Last revised: 29 May 2025

Jonathan Libgober

University of Southern California

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Elyashiv Wiedman

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Date Written: September 26, 2018

Abstract

We examine how external news with uncertain precision influences investor beliefs, market prices, and corporate disclosures. We find that good external (and public) news is taken with a grain of salt—specifically, it is perceived as unlikely to be precise—confirming investor beliefs that nondisclosing managers are hiding unfavorable (private) information. As a result, better external news may paradoxically lead to lower market valuation. Overall, we find that, amid management silence, equilibrium stock prices are nonmonotonic in (and react asymmetrically to) external news. We also predict that the probability of disclosure depends on the timing of the disclosure, the positivity of external news, and the financial strength of the industry. 

Keywords: uncertain precision, voluntary disclosure, price nonmonotonicity, asymmetric price reaction, probability of disclosure JEL: D82

Declaration of Interest

none

Ethics Approval

not relevant

Funder Statement

none

Suggested Citation:

Libgober, Jonathan and Michaeli, Beatrice and Wiedman, Elyashiv, With a Grain of Salt: Investor Reactions to Uncertain News and (Non)Disclosure (September 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5268752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5268752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous information flows and the clustering of announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 2955 - 2979 Posted: 2011
R Aggarwal , D Schirm
Asymmetric impact of trade balance news on asset prices
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 8 , p. 83 - 100 Posted: 1998
K Ahern , D Sosyura
Rumor has it: Sensationalism in financial media
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 2050 - 2093 Posted: 2015
Y Alperovych , D Cumming , V Czellar , A Groh
M&A rumors about unlisted firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 3 , p. 1324 - 1339 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
233
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies