Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Adam Smith's Moral Theory Explains the Rise and Fall of ESG--and Provides a Responsible Path Forward

34 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Douglas E. Stevens

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Date Written: June 12, 2025

Abstract

The Chicago School of Economics used a few quotes from the Wealth of Nations to associate Adam Smith with their economic theory of the firm based on opportunistic self-interest and a narrow view of corporate responsibility. That theory of the firm has dominated the fields of accounting, economics, and finance since the 1970s, but it is unable to address the expanding corporate responsibility and sustainability issues arising in the modern economy. This study demonstrates the usefulness of Smith's moral theory in addressing the ever-present trade-offs that characterize Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) initiatives. First, I explain how ESG challenged the traditional theory of the firm. Second, I present Smith's moral theory based on shared values and social norms and explain how it formed the moral foundation for his economic theory. Third, I describe how Smith's moral theory is able to explain both the rise of ESG and its eventual backlash. I conclude by discussing how incorporating Smith's moral theory into the theory of the firm provides a responsible path forward for researchers, practitioners, and policymakers.

Keywords: Adam Smith, Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, ESG, Theory of the Firm

Suggested Citation:

Stevens, Douglas E., How Adam Smith's Moral Theory Explains the Rise and Fall of ESG--and Provides a Responsible Path Forward (June 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5292998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5292998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
H Abdel-Rahim , J Liu , D Stevens
Increasing the Usefulness of Agency Theory to Accounting: From Self-Interest to Shared Values and Social Norms Posted: 2025
D Andrews
Keynes and the British Humanist Tradition: The Moral Purpose of the Market Posted: 2010
G Becker , Milton Friedman , J Daniel Hammond
The Legacy of Milton Friedman as a Teacher Posted: 1993
F Berg , J Kolbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate confusion: The divergence of ESG ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
424
RANK
702,914
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies