Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Drivers Analysis Approach in Conducting Strategic Orientation of Cost Management: With a Case Study

218 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2025

Mahmoud Naiem

Faculty of Commerce, Tanta University

Date Written: April 29, 2025

Abstract

Due to competitive pressures, a lot of changes should be made to cope with rapid developments and requirements of modern environment that should be related to firm strategy to create competitive advantages and achieve its long-term objectives. Therefore, it is necessary for firms to have a strategic orientation in their cost management practices and achieving better Ex-ante control over value-creation and cost throughout the Total Value Chain (TVC), to continually improve performance toward creating the maximum value for the customer at the lowest possible cost. Drivers Analysis Approach can be recognized as a valuable and effective Strategic Cost Management (SCM) techniques, it is also considered among the important Ex-ante control approaches of value and cost, through controlling their drivers. It provides a distinct approach to studying the trade-off between value-creation represented by value drivers and cost represented by cost drivers for the purpose of selecting and providing information on best drivers. The main goal of this research is to construct a Drivers Analysis framework as an Ex-ante approach for conducting the strategic orientation of cost management. This research provides substantial insights into the importance of drivers` analysis and how to apply it in a better way by dealing with the area of value creation to achieve competitive advantages. In addition to Cost Drivers Analysis, the research considered the value drivers analysis based on the Critical Success Factors (CSFs) to select best value drivers and best cost drivers using Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP). The researcher adopted the Constructive Approach to develop the proposed framework that serves the research objectives. A case study was caried out as a research method using AHP tool on the National Bank of Egypt (NBE) branches in Gharbia to clarify the applicability of the proposed framework based on a set of proposed and updated criteria for applying the Drivers Analysis. In addition, the researcher relied on interviews, observations, documentary analysis and a questionnaire to collect the necessary data for the case. Accordingly, some recommendations have been suggested to improve the utilization of the bank’s resources in a way that maximizes the value of its clients at the lowest possible cost and to guide and improve the strategic performance in NBE toward achieving sustainable competitive advantages and enhance its competitive position.

Suggested Citation:

Naiem, Mahmoud, The Role of Drivers Analysis Approach in Conducting Strategic Orientation of Cost Management: With a Case Study (April 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5297805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5297805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
K M Abbas
Viability of some applied cost systems in manufacturing firms: Egypt's case
Economic Engineering in Agricultural and Rural Development , volume 15 , p. 11 - 17 Posted: 2015
A A E Abdelraheem , B E A Serajeldin , A A A Jedo
Strategic cost and activating competitive advantage
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 337 - 342 Posted: 2017
E A Adigbole
Strategic Cost Management and Performance of Selected manufacturing firms in Lagos and Ogun states
Nigeria. International Journal of Contemporary Accounting Issues-IJCAI , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 151 Posted: 2019
K H Y Al-Naser , R Mohamed
The integration between strategic cost management techniques to improve the performance of Iraqi manufacturing companies
Asian Journal of Finance & Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 210 - 223 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
318
RANK
889,053
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies