Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Audit Expectation Updating: Direct and Indirect Effects of an Audit

44 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025 Last revised: 21 Jun 2025

Yulia Kuchumova

National Research University Higher School of Economics

Suriya Kumacheva

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

In recent years, an emerging body of empirical research has shown that tax audits, in addition to recovering unpaid taxes (direct effect), increase future tax compliance (indirect or dynamic effect). This literature also suggests that updating expectations induced by audit experience plays an important role in explaining this indirect effect. However, the question of how exactly taxpayers form their beliefs and adjust them based on audit experience remains open. This paper extends tax compliance theory by providing a new framework for describing how taxpayers construct their subjective beliefs about audit probability and then analyzing the dynamic impact of a tax audit on tax evasion behavior. Given that Bayesian belief updating is informationally demanding for taxpayers but does not deal with zero-probability events, we propose two simple but realistic mechanisms of beliefs updating based on audit experience that represents different personality types of taxpayers. Under the heuristic updating mechanism, which turns out to be the most realistic, our model allows us to sustain all observed patterns of the specific indirect effect: it is positive for non-compliant taxpayers, persists but attenuates over time. Additionally, we consider the case when, through an audit, a taxpayer can get inside information and learn the true audit rule. Analyzing this case, we find that revealing information is not beneficial for the tax authority.

Keywords: tax audit, subjective belief, updating, dynamic effect

Suggested Citation:

Kuchumova, Yulia and Kumacheva, Suriya, Tax Audit Expectation Updating: Direct and Indirect Effects of an Audit. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5312100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5312100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Arun Advani , William Elming , Jonathan Shaw
The dynamic effects of tax audits
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 105 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 561 Posted: 2023
Maurice Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
James Andreoni , Brian Erard , Jonathan Feinstein
Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
Sebastian Beer , Brian Erard , Matthias Kasper , Erich Kirchler
Tax audits and their effects on tax compliance , volume 26 , p. 41 - 44 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
222
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies