Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Queuing management for the cost of congestion and the profit potential

American Accounting Association 2025 ANNUAL MEETING, Chicago

12 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025 Last revised: 30 Jun 2025

Hiroto Kataoka

Meiji University, Graduate School of Professional Accountancy

Yuki Misui

Ryutsu Keizai University

Hirohisa Hirai

Waseda University; Kanagawa University; Takasaki City University of Economics

Date Written: January 05, 2025

Abstract

Congestion costs refer to opportunity losses (profit losses) caused by customer's balking or reneging behavior due to congestion; a study by Hirai and Kataoka (2024) modeled congestion costs and showed that profits decrease when utilization rates increase too much. This makes it clear that controlling the rate of balking or reneging is essential to maximizing a business profit. Proper queuing management can prevent customer's balking or reneging due to wait times and contribute to improved profits and a better customer experience. This has attracted attention as a means of building competitive advantage. The purpose of this paper is to extend the preceding model and explore the significance of controlling customer's balking or reneging behavior during congestion through simulation. It also discusses the profit potential and ways of control and explores the role of queuing management in addressing congestion problems.

Suggested Citation:

Kataoka, Hiroto and Misui, Yuki and Hirai, Hirohisa, Queuing management for the cost of congestion and the profit potential (January 05, 2025). American Accounting Association 2025 ANNUAL MEETING, Chicago, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5312953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5312953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
R Balakrishnan , K Sivaramakrishnan , G Sprinkle
Managerial Accounting Posted: 2008
R Balakrishnan , N S Soderstrom
The cost of system congestion: Evidence from the healthcare sector
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 97 - 114 Posted: 2000
R D S M Banker , S M Datar , S Kekre
Relevant costs, congestion and stochasticity in production environments
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 171 - 197 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
222
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies