Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integration of Logical Structures with New Variable Complexes in Management Accounting Data Analysis

23 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Odysseas Moschidis

University of Macedonia

Stratos Moschidis

University of Macedonia

Abstract

This study introduces an innovative approach to data analysis in Management Accounting and beyond, by proposing the construction of “complexes” of variables, comprising categorical and/or continuous variables, treated as unified categorical entities, defined a priori through logical operations such as conjunction, disjunction, implication, and negation among known variables. In contrast to the well-known latent variables derived from data via weighted linear combinations (as in Principal Component Analysis) (Jolliffe, 2002), which are widely used in statistical analysis, the proposed variable complexes are theoretically defined so as to simultaneously encode specific information among variables as well as causal relationships between them (Bollen, 1989). For example, the conjunctive complex of the two variables, “sector of activity” and “export orientation “allows for their examination as a single composite piece of information about the firm, while an implication complex can explicitly define a causal relationship, such as: “if a company invests in digital automation, then cost-effectiveness improves” (Kaplan & Norton, 1996). The variable “complexes” are applied in this article to real Management Accounting data from a sample of 460 business employees, and their analysis using Correspondence Analysis (Greenacre, 2007) visualizes the information and substantiates the usefulness of this approach as a tool for informed decision-making in the field of Management Accounting and Strategic Management (Horngren et al., 2006). By conceptualizing the “complex” as a new variable, the capacity to analyze more intricate logical structures within data is expanded, and the scope of application of multivariate data analysis methods is extended across all scientific domains (Hair Jr et al., 2010).

Keywords: Variable complex, Correspondence Analysis, Management accounting, Strategic management

Suggested Citation:

Moschidis, Odysseas and Moschidis, Stratos, Integration of Logical Structures with New Variable Complexes in Management Accounting Data Analysis. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5312292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5312292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
References
H Al-Mawali
Proposing a strategy map based on sustainability balanced scorecard and DEMATEL for manufacturing companies
SAMPJ , volume 14 , p. 565 - 590 Posted: 2023
C Ax , T Bjørnenak
Bundling and diffusion of management accounting innovationsthe case of the balanced scorecard in Sweden
Management Accounting Research , volume 16 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2005
R D Banker , H Chang , M Pizzini
The judgmental effects of strategy maps in balanced scorecard performance evaluations
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 12 , p. 259 - 279 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
133
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies