Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Price Informativeness

70 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2025

Wenxi Jiang

CUHK Business School, The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Wei Xiong

Princeton University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Zhiguo He

Stanford University

Date Written: June 21, 2025

Abstract

We address the puzzling finding by Carpenter, Lu, and Whitelaw (2021) that Chinese A-share stock prices are as informative about future earnings as those in the U.S. market. Due to prevalent earnings management and less sophisticated investors in the Chinese A-share market, firms may manipulate their reported earnings to align with optimism-driven stock valuations. We show that higher-valued stocks report higher earnings over next three years, but this does not increase shareholders payouts or operating cash flows; and earnings eventually reverse. Additionally, we provide evidence of earnings management through non-recurring gains and losses (NRGLs), and leverage the 2020 delisting rule reform as a natural experiment.

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Wenxi and Xiong, Wei and He, Zhiguo, Earnings Management and Price Informativeness (June 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5327469 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5327469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
F Allen , J Qian , C Shan , J L Zhu
Dissecting the long-term performance of the chinese stock market
The Journal of Finance , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 993 - 1054 Posted: 2024
L An , D Lou , D Shi
Wealth redistribution in bubbles and crashes
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 126 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2022
J Bai , T Philippon , A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
J Bian , Z Da , Z He , D Lou , K Shue , H Zhou
The drivers and implications of retail margin trading
Journal of Finance Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
658
RANK
390,788
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies