Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An exploratory analysis on the behavioural biases faced by Indian investors based on Maslowian Portfolio Theory and related demographic variables

27 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2025 Last revised: 30 Jun 2025

Gaurang Asopa

Christ University

Komal Raj

Christ University

Mehak Jain

Christ University

Date Written: February 13, 2025

Abstract

Investor's irrationality is an ineludibly reality that has been brought to light by researchers, time and again (Statman, 2008). Therefore, this study remains yet another attempt to assess the unexplored relation of socio-demographic and levels of Maslow's hierarchy of needs on the behavioural biases of Indian investors. A survey questionnaire has been devised to collect responses using convenience sampling technique from an arrived sample of 384 Indian investors to find out the behavioural biases and the need level Indian investors are subject to. Behavioural biases include availability, self-control, confirmation, ambiguity aversion, endowment, loss aversion, illusion of control, and hindsight bias of investors. Inferential statistical models like T-tests, amongst others, are used to test the influence of behavioural biases on an investment decision. The results show that Maslow's need levels and socio-demographic factors have a significant impact on the final investment decision. All in all, results conclude that investor behaviour is driven and highly impacted by behavioural biases.

Keywords: Maslow Need Hierarchy, Investor Bias, Maslowian Portfolio Theory, investor performance

Suggested Citation:

Asopa, Gaurang and Raj, Komal and Jain, Mehak, An exploratory analysis on the behavioural biases faced by Indian investors based on Maslowian Portfolio Theory and related demographic variables (February 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5330763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5330763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
P J De Brouwer
Maslowian portfolio theory Posted: 2011
H K Baker , G Filbeck , V Ricciardi
How behavioural biases affect finance professionals
The European Financial Review , p. 25 - 29 Posted: 2017
D Lester , H K Baker , V Ricciardi
Measuring Maslow's hierarchy of needs
The European Financial Review , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 10 Posted: 2013
S Akar , A N C Yi
The impact of psychological factors on investors' decision making in Malaysian stock market: a case of Klang Valley and Pahang
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 35 , p. 319 - 328 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
231
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Banking & Insurance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies