Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determination of Financial Capital Structure on the Insurance Sector Firms in India

7 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Sandhya Suswaram

NITTE School of Management; Sir M. Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology (MVIT)

M. A. Suresh Kumar

Advanced Management College,

M. Dhanasekaran

Adhiyamaan College of Engineering

R. Saravanan

VLB Janakiammal College of Engineering and Technology

Date Written: February 01, 2012

Abstract

Any sector in which the business starts, the major source is money. When it comes to the business it is termed as fund or capital. Insurance is the growing sector in growing countries like India. Most of the Public and private companies aimed to this sector for their business. The question of the funding structure took a great importance. On the other hand, Insurance is the field where large amount of Fund is demanded. The term fund is affected by various features or factors which is different from other business. It is known fact that, depending on the size of the business the investment varies. This study aims to examine the effect of various factors that affect the capital structure of Insurance firms.

Keywords: Capital Structure, Insurance sector, Characteristics of Insurance

Suggested Citation:

Suswaram, Sandhya and Suresh Kumar, M. A. and Dhanasekaran, M. and Saravanan, R., Determination of Financial Capital Structure on the Insurance Sector Firms in India (February 01, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5344053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5344053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
F Bancel , U Mittoo
Cross-country determinants of capital structure choice, Survey of European firms
Fin. Manage. J , volume 33 , p. 103 - 132 Posted: 2004
G Cassar , S Holmes
Capital structure and financing of SMES: Australian evidence
Account. Fin. J , volume 43 , p. 123 - 147 Posted: 2003
F Modigliani , Miller
The cost of capital, corporate finance and theory investment
Am. Econ. Rev , volume 48 , p. 261 - 297 Posted: 1958
N D Tran , R N Khoig
Capital Structure in Small and Medium-sized Enterprises: The case of Vietnam
ASEAN Econ. Bull , volume 23 , p. 192 - 211 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
181
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies