Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Anomalies and the Growth Risk Premium

Posted: 22 Jul 2025

Pengguo Wang

Xfi, University of Exeter

David Ashton

University of Bristol

Date Written: July 10, 2025

Abstract

The interaction between the risky growth of investment and future earnings plays a central role in predicting stock returns, giving to an investment puzzle associated with the risk inherent in growth. Our parsimonious theoretical model provides a connection between stock returns and uncertainties in investment growth, company profitability, book-to-market ratio, and earnings systematic risk. This analytic approach to the determinants of stock returns contrasts with conventional factor models that augment the simple CAPM model with empirically determined accounting variables. Our analysis sheds light on several empirical anomalies resulting from interactions between explanatory variables used in empirical analysis and offers insights into the nature and structure of the book-to-market factor.

Keywords: Growth, Profitability, Stock Returns, Investment Anomaly

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Pengguo and Ashton, David, Investment Anomalies and the Growth Risk Premium (July 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5346430
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
229
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies