Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing in the Digital Age: Determinants and Consequences of Technology Investment 

50 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Hyun Hwang

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Eunhee Kim

CUNY Baruch College

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

Technological advancements are reshaping the business landscape, yet their use in financial reporting has been slow. This study examines auditors' and companies' technology investment decisions and their impact on audit fees and audit outcomes. Our analysis shows that auditors and companies may not invest in mutually beneficial technologies that enhance audit quality. We also demonstrate how legal liability, client business risk, and auditors' pricing power affect the conditions under which such coordination failures can occur. Furthermore, we show that technology investments can either increase or decrease audit fees. When companies can choose among projects with varying risk levels, technology investments can lead to a greater risk of audit failure while improving welfare. Our results provide a rationale for regulatory intervention in facilitating technology investments within the financial reporting environment and offer relevant empirical predictions.

Keywords: Technology Investment, Supply and Demand for Audit Quality, Coordination, Auditor Pricing Power, Project Selection, Audit Regulations

Suggested Citation:

Hwang, Hyun and Kim, Eunhee and Ye, Minlei, Auditing in the Digital Age: Determinants and Consequences of Technology Investment  (July 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5353186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5353186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
D Acemoglu
A microfoundation for social increasing returns in human capital
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 111 , issue 3 , p. 779 - 804 Posted: 1996
D Acemoglu
Training and innovation in an imperfect labour market
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 64 , issue 3 , p. 445 - 464 Posted: 1997
P Aghion , P W Howitt
The economics of growth Posted: 2008
P Aghion , P Howitt , D Mayer-Foulkes
The effect of financial development on convergence: Theory and evidence
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 1 , p. 173 - 222 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
244
RANK
906,046
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies