Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coordinating Pro-Social Practices in Decentralized Relationships: The Case of the Buy-One-Give-One Model

33 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Tyler Atanasov

Purdue University

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Dae-Hee Yoon

Yonsei University

Date Written: July 21, 2025

Abstract

With social preferences playing an increasingly pivotal role in consumer decisions, supply chains are facing critical new dimensions on which coordination becomes important. A case in point is the retail adoption of the buy-one-give-one (BOGO) model - a sales approach in which a retailer pledges it will donate one unit of product to charity for each consumer purchase. This retail decision inevitably has repercussions up the supply chain. In this paper, we demonstrate that supply chain participants are aligned in their preferences over when to adopt the BOGO sales model. Such unanimity arises despite the self-interest of participants leading to conflicting decisions on traditional pricing and stocking choices. The salve that ensures coordination is the ability of input prices to adjust in ways that naturally share externalities proportionally among supply chain partners. Additionally, the criteria for BOGO adoption is efficient in that it maximizes welfare. In an extension, we demonstrate that these properties of unanimity and efficiency expand beyond the BOGO case to a wider set of pro-social decisions made along the supply chain.

Keywords: channel coordination, corporate social responsibility, ESG, supply chains

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Atanasov, Tyler and Mittendorf, Brian and Yoon, Dae-Hee, Coordinating Pro-Social Practices in Decentralized Relationships: The Case of the Buy-One-Give-One Model (July 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5363506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5363506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Interacting supply chain distortions: The pricing of internal transfers and external procurement
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 3 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2007
M Azevedo , A Moore , C Van Den Heuvel , M Van Hoey
Capturing the green-premium value from sustainable materials Posted: 2022-01
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Selling to socially responsible consumers: Competition and the private provision of public goods
Journal of Economics and Management Strategy , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 419 - 445 Posted: 2003
J Battilana , A.-C Pache , M Sengul , M Kimsey
The dual-purpose playbook
Harvard Business Review , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 124 - 133 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
164
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Supply Chain Management eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies