Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Incentives for Firms in Light of Cross-Ownership

39 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2025 Last revised: 8 Aug 2025

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Thomas Pfeiffer

University of Vienna - Accounting and Control

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

With institutional investors and mutual funds holding significant shares in competing firms, understanding cross-owned firms' decisions is vital. This paper derives the optimal disclosure policies for competing, cross-owned firms, showing how these are affected by technological spillovers, the intensity of competition, and the nature of product markets. The results show that cross-ownership induces more firm disclosures, which can promote a firm's own profit (at low-spillover values) or the rival's profit (at high-spillover values). The increased transparency under cross-ownership can generate Pareto gains, improving consumer surplus and firm profits relative to separate ownership. This unifying finding holds under quantity and price competition, challenging the view that cross-ownership leads firms to collude, hurting consumers. Additionally, with cross-ownership, we find that high-spillover disclosures occur more under price than quantity competition. Thus, price competition can generate Pareto gains, contradicting the view that such competition favors consumers but at the expense of firms.

Keywords: cross-ownership, competition, disclosure, spillovers

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Pfeiffer, Thomas, Disclosure Incentives for Firms in Light of Cross-Ownership (August 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5380156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5380156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J Azar , M C Schmalz , I Tecu
Anticompetitive effects of common ownership
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1513 - 1565 Posted: 2018
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Competitive intelligence and disclosure
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 709 - 729 Posted: 2015
D Bernard , D Burgstahler , D Kaya
Size management by European private firms to minimize proprietary costs of disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 122 Posted: 2018
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
139
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies