Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market-Based Managerial Incentives and Real Effects of Auditor Rotation

31 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2025

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Dae-Hee Yoon

Yonsei University

Date Written: August 05, 2025

Abstract

Auditor rotation has long been discussed as a tool to solidify auditor independence, though it comes with the offsetting factor that it undermines auditor learning effects coming from client experience. In this paper, we consider a model that introduces new considerations in auditor assignment. In the model, managerial incentives tied to a concern for higher market price give rise to a temptation to manage earnings but also engender incentives for managerial effort. In this framework, an effective audit serves to reduce manipulation and also to solidify managerial effort incentives. These features jointly point to a new justification for auditor rotation-when a skilled auditor issues a report for a firm, the report updates market beliefs sufficiently that the firm's reputation is solidified and marginal incentive benefits of a follow-up audit in a subsequent period are reduced. This means that a strong audit has decreasing intertemporal returns within a firm and, as such, rotation helps "share the wealth" of the real effects of effective audits across an economy. As a result, rotation not only reduces earnings manipulation but also introduces positive real effects that manifest in higher market capitalization.

Keywords: auditing, audit rotation, earnings management, equity markets, incentives

Suggested Citation:

Mittendorf, Brian and Yoon, Dae-Hee, Market-Based Managerial Incentives and Real Effects of Auditor Rotation (August 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5381880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5381880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Bleibtreu , U Stefani
The effects of mandatory audit firm rotation on client importance and audit industry concentration
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2018
A Dordzhieva
Disciplining Role of Auditor Tenure and Mandatory Auditor Rotation
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 182 Posted: 2022
M Cameran , J R Francis , A Marra , A Pettinicchio
Are there adverse consequences of mandatory auditor rotation? Evidence from the Italian experience
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2015
M Cameran , A Prencipe , M Trombetta
Mandatory audit firm rotation and audit quality
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
150
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies