Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Thermodynamic Theory of Accounting and Macroeconomics

6 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Jake Howell

Howell Estate Planning, PC

Date Written: August 06, 2025

Abstract

This theory posits that the double-entry accounting system is a robust model that applies the laws of thermodynamics to bookkeeping. Rooted in the mathematical principle of conservation, the system is isomorphic to the physical laws governing energy flow. The proposed framework reveals that while global growth is limited by energy extraction and efficiency, the American economic subsystem utilizes a third growth method: an indiscriminate tax on U.S. currency holders domestically and abroad, which is facilitated by the dominance of the Petrodollar system. This "inflation tax," implemented through domestic credit creation, allows for a systemic transfer of value from international U.S. dollar holders to domestic recipients. The theory concludes that the integrity of the double-entry system is therefore paramount, as departing from it risks creating an economic ledger that no longer corresponds to physical reality.

Keywords: Accounting Theory, Political Economy, Macroeconomics, Econophysics, Economic Philosophy, Double-Entry Bookkeeping, Thermodynamics, Energy Economics, Entropy, Conservation Laws, Petrodollar System, Credit Creation, Inflation Tax, Reserve Currency, Monetary Policy, U.S. Dollar, Indirect Tax, Heterodox Economics, Interdisciplinary Theory, Biophysical Economics, Ecological Economics

Declaration of Interest

I own my own estate planning law firm.

Ethics Approval

n/a

Funder Statement

Self-funded.

Suggested Citation:

Howell, Jake, A Thermodynamic Theory of Accounting and Macroeconomics (August 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5382441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5382441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies