Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure and Beauty Contests

53 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2025 Last revised: 4 Sep 2025

Mingxuan Ma

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: August 06, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines how investors’ beauty contest motives shape managerial voluntary disclosure in a market entry setting with endogenous disclosure costs. Investors rely on both public and private signals, and their investment returns depend on firm fundamentals and aggregate investment, inducing higher-order belief formation. Anticipating investor coordination and potential competitor entry, managers strategically choose whether to disclose. The analysis shows that stronger beauty contest motives increase disclosure incentives: investors with stronger coordination motives penalize nondisclosure more severely, since silence conveys a weaker signal than prior beliefs. This paper finds that investor coordination enhances investor welfare and more precise public disclosure facilitates coordination. However, investor welfare may decline with greater public signal precision due to the endogenous disclosure costs. The socially optimal disclosure level depends on the strength of beauty contest motives: With weak motive, socially optimal disclosure is lower than manager's choice when the public signal is imprecise, and higher when the signal is precise. With strong motive, the socially optimal disclosure level is always above the manager’s choice, as greater disclosure enhances investor coordination. Additionally, relative to nondisclosure, disclosure increases ex-post volatility in aggregate investment. 

Keywords: Beauty contests, higher-order beliefs, voluntary disclosure, endogenous disclosure cost, investor welfare, investor coordination

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Mingxuan, Voluntary Disclosure and Beauty Contests (August 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5383043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5383043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty contests and iterated expectations in asset markets
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 719 - 752 Posted: 2006
G.-M Angeletos , A Pavan
Transparency of information and coordination in economies with investment complementarities
American Economic Review , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 91 - 98 Posted: 2004
G.-M Angeletos , A Pavan
Efficient use of information and social value of information
Econometrica , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 1103 - 1142 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
193
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies