Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relevance of PAS 41 Provisions for Davao City Agricultural Entities in the Context of Post-Covid Accounting Challenges

Business and Organization Studies e-Journal Vol. 1 No. 3 (2023), pp. 53-76 

Posted: 29 Aug 2025

Neil M. Cua

University of Mindanao

Ma. Elloisa Danica G. Paunillian

University of Mindanao

Maybellene L. Villacastin

University of Mindanao

Rebecca R. Maquiling

University of Mindanao

Date Written: July 20, 2023

Abstract

This research investigates the awareness and compliance with the PAS 41 standard within the agricultural industries of Davao City, Philippines. The study reveals a pressing need for improvement in awareness and adherence to accounting standards attributable to the inherent complexities of agricultural operations and transactions. Using descriptive statistics and multiple regression analyses, Factors influencing compliance, including legal systems, providers of finance, taxation, national culture, and other influences, were identified and found to be perceived at a high level by agricultural entities. An analysis of the perceived relevance of PAS 41 provisions indicates that recognition and measurement provisions are highly relevant, while presentation and disclosure provisions are considered relevant. The research findings highlight a practical deviation from the theoretical framework, emphasizing the unique challenges agricultural entities face in adhering to generic accounting standards. This underscores the necessity for a balanced approach that respects standard uniformity while allowing for practical adaptability within industries with distinct operational characteristics.

Keywords: PAS 41, Compliance to Accounting Standards, Positive Accounting Theory, Agriculture Accounting, Philippines

JEL Classification: M41, Q13, Q14, Q01

Suggested Citation:

Cua, Neil M. and G. Paunillian, Ma. Elloisa Danica and Villacastin, Maybellene L. and Maquiling, Rebecca R., Relevance of PAS 41 Provisions for Davao City Agricultural Entities in the Context of Post-Covid Accounting Challenges (July 20, 2023).

Business and Organization Studies e-Journal Vol. 1 No. 3 (2023), pp. 53-76 

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5397207
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
91
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Accounting - Disclosure eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies