Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence in the Boardroom 

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1087/2025

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/132

45 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2025 Last revised: 10 Sep 2025

Daniel Ferreira

London School of Economics - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Jin Li

Faculty of Business and Economics, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: August 27, 2025

Abstract

We analyze how the use of artificial intelligence affects the monitoring and advisory relationship between CEOs and corporate boards. AI can serve as an advisor to CEOs, partially substituting for board advice, and thus reducing CEOs' incentives to share information with directors. In equilibrium, firms respond by reducing board independence to restore information flows. Lower monitoring intensity decreases CEO turnover, making CEOs more entrenched. Lower dismissal risk allows firms to reduce CEO compensation. We show that AI adoption by the board mitigates some of the negative aspects of the CEO's AI use, but cannot restore efficient levels of board monitoring. Our analysis suggests that the adoption of AI in the boardroom may have unintended consequences for corporate governance.

Keywords: Boards, CEOs, Artificial Intelligence, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Daniel and Li, Jin, Artificial Intelligence in the Boardroom  (August 27, 2025). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1087/2025, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/132, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5409542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5409542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
R B Adams , A C Akyol , P Verwijmeren
Director Skill Sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
T Babina , A Fedyk , A He , J Hodson , S Basu , L Eldridge , J Haltiwanger , E Strassner
Firm Investments in Artificial Intelligence Technologies and Changes in Workforce Composition," in Technology, Productivity, and Economic Growth , volume 83 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
866
RANK
176,084
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies