Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Theory as a Musical Instrument: From the Storeroom Shelf to the Workbench to Scholar-GPT Ensembles

41 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025 Last revised: 8 Sep 2025

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Date Written: September 04, 2025

Abstract

I treat accounting theory as a musical instrument and tells its story in four acts. In act 1 scholars put accounting theory on the shelf and played theories designed by and for other fields. In act 2 I worked with Tamara Lambert and Marietta Peytcheva to rebuild accounting theory to address the reasons it was shelved. We made Role-Centered Accounting Theory (RCAT) flexible enough to play in any subfield, tuned it to harmonize with other theories, and made its normative principles less strident. In act 3 we crafted etudes to showcase its versatility, analyzing the use of GPTs by scholars and accounting in our changing political landscape. Act 4 began when we shared RCAT with scholars, along with the RCAT Analysis Machine, a customized GPT available in OpenAI's GPT store, to make RCAT much easier to play. The story ends with a cliffhanger: who will play it and new music will they write?

Keywords: Accounting theory, Artificial intelligence, Generative Prompt Transformers, Positive Accounting Theory, Accounting Ethics, Market Efficiency, Behavioral Game Theory, Financial Accounting, Management Accounting, Management Consulting

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Robert J., Accounting Theory as a Musical Instrument: From the Storeroom Shelf to the Workbench to Scholar-GPT Ensembles (September 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5441654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5441654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
C R Baker
The Influence Of Accounting Theory on the FASB Conceptual Framework
Accounting Historians Journal , volume 44 , p. 109 - 124 Posted: 2017
Ray Ball , Philip Brown
An empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Ray Ball , Philip Brown
An empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Mary E Barth , H William , Wayne R Beaver , Landsman , Victor L Bernard , Jacob K Thomas
Evidence that stock prices do not fully reflect the implications of current earnings for future earnings
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 31 , issue 1-3 , p. 305 - 340 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
277
RANK
662,989
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies