Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Moral Hazard: Estimating the Financial and Non-financial Impacts of CEO Incentives

New York University Stern School of Business Research Paper Series

74 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025

Kyle (Jaehoon) Jung

NYU Stern School of Business

Date Written: October 08, 2024

Abstract

I develop a novel structural model and analyze the financial and non-financial implications of CEO compensation contracts that include incentives tied to non-financial performance. By applying this model to green incentives, I find that they motivate CEOs to reduce carbon emission intensity by 1.8% per year but at a financial cost of 1.3% of firm value annually. As green performance is an imperfect signal of CEOs' actions toward green outcomes, a "green moral hazard" arises: the principal should offer CEOs a premium for the risk added by green incentives. I estimate that this green moral hazard is substantial, accounting for $1.72 million of the total moral hazard cost of $2.05 million. These results suggest that green incentives pose an important economic trade-off: while green incentives can lead to meaningful environmental improvements, they impose substantial costs on the firm.

Keywords: Structural Estimation, Moral Hazard, Corporate Governance, Contract Theory, Incentive

JEL Classification: C6, D8, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Jaehoon, Green Moral Hazard: Estimating the Financial and Non-financial Impacts of CEO Incentives (October 08, 2024). New York University Stern School of Business Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5450277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5450277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
179
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies