Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Credit Risk Modelling using Logistic Regression and Decision Trees

59 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2025

Shakthipriya S

SRM Institute of Science and Technology

Date Written: August 30, 2025

Abstract

Credit risk assessment is a critical task for financial institutions to minimize losses and ensure sustainable lending practices. Traditional approaches like logistic regression offer strong interpretability and statistical rigor, while decision trees excel at capturing non-linear relationships and interaction effects in the data.

In this project, we develop a hybrid credit risk model that leverages the strengths of both methods. Logistic regression is used to model the baseline probability of default (PD) using well-understood financial and demographic variables. Decision trees are then employed to segment borrowers into risk groups and capture complex patterns that logistic regression alone may miss.

Keywords: Credit Risk Modelling, MBA Project, German Credit Dataset

Suggested Citation:

S, Shakthipriya and S, Shakthipriya, A Study on Credit Risk Modelling using Logistic Regression and Decision Trees (August 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5469667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5469667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
66
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow

Data Science, Data Analytics & Informatics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies