Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deal Sourcing and Operational Risk Management

35 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2025

Felix Zhiyu Feng

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Beatrice Michaeli

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Kai Chiu Yang

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

Liquidity management is one of the most important responsibilities of CFOs and other accounting executives. Yet little is known about how the different tools for managing liquidity interact. We develop a dynamic model in which a firm engages in deal sourcingcostly effort to secure favorable opportunities for asset sales or acquisitions-and operational policies that stabilize cash flows at the expense of expected productivity. A liquidity constraint requiring nonnegative cash balances endogenously ties these policies together and gives rise to distinctive patterns. In particular, we find that the effort to manage the risk of operations declines monotonically with liquidity, while deal sourcing follows a U-shaped profile: intensive when liquidity is scarce (to support sales) or abundant (to pursue acquisitions), but limited at intermediate levels. Consequently, the two policies act as complements in low-liquidity states but substitutes in high-liquidity states. The framework maps directly into accounting statements, predicting systematic differences in firms' cash buffers, operating volatility, asset turnover, and payouts. These predictions speak to observed heterogeneity across industries with illiquid assets and provide guidance for empirical research.

Keywords: deal sourcing, external financing, liquidity

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Felix and Friedman, Henry L. and Michaeli, Beatrice and Yang, Kai Chiu and Yang, Kai Chiu, Deal Sourcing and Operational Risk Management (June 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5474409 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5474409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
118
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies