Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Difference in Some Anthropometric Characteristics,Motoric and Specific Motoric Skills Between the Students and Athletes of the Age 15

7 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2025

Arben Maliqi

AAB College

Nazim Myrtaj

AAB College

Blerim Sylejmani

AAB College

Armend Xhemajli

AAB College

Date Written: December 21, 2020

Abstract

To deal with sport activities, concretely with athletics, initially there should take place an early selection of children. Our search included 35 students' athletes and 35 non athlete students. The overall number of 70 students of the age 15 were included in this research. There were applied 7 anthropometric variables, 6 motor tests and 2 motor specific tests as well. The main goal of this research was to determine the scale of difference between the two groups, respectively between the group of the non-athlete students and the one of the athlete students in some anthropometric characteristics, motor and specific motor as well. This work results show that training process within the frame of the athletics frame effects generally positively in positive development and transformation of human body in the aspect of morphological development, motor and specific motor aspects. All of it has been proved through reached changes of the students' athletes group.

Keywords: Athletics, Athletes', Students, Discrimination Analyses

Declaration of Interest

There is no conflict of interest.

Ethics Approval

According to the Declaration of Helsinki

Funder Statement

Self-financing

Clinical Trial Registration

254-260

Suggested Citation:

Maliqi, Arben and Maliqi, Arben and Maliqi, Arben and Myrtaj, Nazim and Myrtaj, Nazim and Sylejmani, Blerim and Sylejmani, Blerim and Xhemajli, Armend, The Difference in Some Anthropometric Characteristics,Motoric and Specific Motoric Skills Between the Students and Athletes of the Age 15 (December 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5476946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5476946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
162
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Pedagogy eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies