Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of capital structure on financial performance

6 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Ylber Prekazi

AAB College

Date Written: May 31, 2023

Abstract

The main purpose of this study is to measure the impact of the capital structure on the financial performance of commercial companies in Kosovo. Specifically, it aims to measure the relationship between the ratio of total debt to capital and the ratio of return on capital employed (ROE), as well as the relationship between the total debt-to-equity ratio and the return on assets (ROA) ratio. Panel data were used to measure the impact of the capital structure on the financial performance of commercial companies in Kosovo for the period 2014-2019. The capital structure indicators included in the study were total debt and total equity, while performance indicators were represented by return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE). The results show that between the capital structure and the financial performance of commercial companies in Kosovo during the study period, there is a strong relationship between assets on the one hand and total capital and total liabilities on the other. The findings of this research are beneficial to investors, lenders, and corporations, and can help financial managers choose the best capital structure to increase the firm's worth.

Keywords: Capital structure Companies Debt ratio Financial performance Return on asset Return on equity. JEL Classification: G32, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Prekazi, Ylber and Prekazi, Ylber, The impact of capital structure on financial performance (May 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5487746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5487746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies