Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconsidering the Concept of Audit Failure for the Study of Audit Failure: Importance of 'Audit Failure in a Broad Sense'

22 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2025 Last revised: 21 Sep 2025

Ryuuichiro Kurihama

Aichi University

Date Written: September 21, 2025

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to reconsider the concept of audit failure for the study of audit failure, as well as for enhancing trust in a financial statement audit.



 'Audit failure' is a significant term in a financial statement audit. Although the term 'audit failure' is frequently used by researchers, auditors, regulators, and the media, audit failure has not been clearly defined. 


The concept of audit failure is believed to differ depending on the perspective of the parties involved in a financial statement audit (stakeholders, management, auditors, regulators, etc.). The concept of audit failure is also believed to differ depending on how audit failures are studied (responsibility, learning, improvement, etc.). 


Hence, this paper reconsiders the concept of audit failure and clarifies the definition and scope of 'audit failure in a broad sense.' 


In conclusion, it is essential to regard the concept of audit failure as 'audit failure in a broad sense' for the study of audit failure and for enhancing trust in a financial statement audit. 'Audit failure in a broad sense' is desirable not only for auditors but also for stakeholders and client companies.

Keywords: Audit Failure, The Concept of Audit Failure, The Study of Failure, The Study of Audit Failure, Audit Failure in a Narrow Sense, Audit Deficiency, Audit Failure in a Broad Sense

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kurihama, Ryuuichiro, Reconsidering the Concept of Audit Failure for the Study of Audit Failure: Importance of 'Audit Failure in a Broad Sense' (September 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5512579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5512579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
90
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies