Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drawing the Line Between Unacceptable Audit Failure and Acceptable Audit Failure: For Building a Just Culture in a Financial Statement Audit

20 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2025 Last revised: 3 Oct 2025

Ryuuichiro Kurihama

Aichi University

Date Written: September 21, 2025

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine unacceptable and acceptable audit failures and draw the line between them. This paper also suggests that drawing the line is essential to building a just culture in a financial statement audit. 



In a financial statement audit and the study of audit failure, it is critical to regard the concept of audit failure as 'audit failure in a broad sense'. This is because the auditor needs to face all audit failures, learn from them, gain valuable lessons, and prevent them in order to reduce audit failures and improve audit quality. 


However, when audit failures occur, it is unacceptable not only to punish all audit failures but also to condone them all equally. Neither accepting all failures nor unaccepting them all is just. We need to draw the line between unacceptable and acceptable audit failures to build a just culture in a financial statement audit. 


Hence, in the light of 'audit failure in a broad sense', this paper draws the line between unacceptable and acceptable audit failures. By drawing the line between them, it is possible to build a just culture in a financial statement audit. 


In conclusion, it is essential to draw the line between unacceptable and acceptable audit failures to build a just culture in a financial statement audit. This just culture is desirable not only for auditors but also for society, including stakeholders and client companies.

Keywords: Audit Failure, The Study of Failure, The Study of Audit Failure, Audit Failure in a Broad Sense, Unacceptable Audit Failure, Acceptable Audit Failure, Just Culture in a Financial Statement Audit

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kurihama, Ryuuichiro, Drawing the Line Between Unacceptable Audit Failure and Acceptable Audit Failure: For Building a Just Culture in a Financial Statement Audit (September 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5512698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5512698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
G M H Bazerman , D A Loewenstein , Moore
Why Good Accountants Do Bad Audits
Harvard Business Review , volume 80 , issue 11 , p. 92 - 102 Posted: 2002
Beasley
M S , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson
Top 10 Audit Deficiencies: Lessons from fraud-related SEC cases
Journal of Accountancy , volume 191 , issue 4 , p. 63 - 66 Posted: 2001
Beasley
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
97
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies