Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
You Belong with Me: Energy Cost and Carbon Accounting for Time-Specific Calculations of Electricity Costs and Carbon Emissions

51 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025 Last revised: 6 Oct 2025

Philip Dickemann

Karlsruhe Institute of Technology

Marc Wouters

Karlsruhe Institute of Technology; University of Amsterdam Business School

Niklas Letmathe

Karlsruhe Institute of Technology

Date Written: September 22, 2025

Abstract

This paper introduces the Energy Cost and Carbon Accounting (ECCA) model, a novel framework that integrates time-specific electricity cost and carbon intensity data into management accounting systems. Existing approaches to carbon accounting often rely on aggregated data, obscuring temporal variability in energy-related emissions and costs. In contrast, the ECCA model aligns electricity consumption with time-specific grid characteristics, generating granular cost and carbon information at the unit and timeslot levels. Drawing on contingency theory, we simulate four scenarios based on electricity market data, systematically varying electricity pricing structures and consumption patterns across hourly to yearly aggregation levels. Our findings show that higher temporal resolution substantially improves the accuracy and decision-usefulness of both energy cost and carbon emissions information, particularly in environments characterized by fluctuating electricity prices and carbon intensities. The ECCA model can enhance operational decision-making, drive behavioral change, and support effective regulatory frameworks. While implementation depends on data availability and organizational flexibility, recent advances in smart metering and energy management systems enhance feasibility. The paper extends design-based management accounting research and contributes to the literature by conceptualizing temporal volatility as a critical contingency factor in the design of energy cost and carbon accounting systems.

Keywords: Energy Cost Accounting, Carbon Emissions, Scope 2, Temporal Resolution, Carbon Accounting, Contingency Theory

Suggested Citation:

Dickemann, Philip and Wouters, Marc J.F. and Letmathe, Niklas, You Belong with Me: Energy Cost and Carbon Accounting for Time-Specific Calculations of Electricity Costs and Carbon Emissions (September 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5517200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5517200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
100
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies