Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enforcement Policy, Disclosure Regulation, and Investment Efficiency

42 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025

Yiying Chen

Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics (ZUFE)

Date Written: September 25, 2025

Abstract

The optimal enforcement policy of disclosure regulation remains debated. Some regulators argue for targeting serious violations alone, while others advocate pursuing all infractions regardless of severity. This paper develops an analytical model to examine how a chosen enforcement policy affects a firm's project selection. In the model, the manager chooses between a riskier project and a safer project and decides whether to disclose information about the firm's final payoff. The regulator mandates disclosure and commits to either a focused enforcement policy (i.e., pursuing only severe violations) or a uniform enforcement policy (i.e., pursuing violations regardless of severity). The key finding is that a focused policy discourages risk-taking, while a uniform policy encourages it. Therefore, a uniform policy enhances investment efficiency when the riskier project is efficient, whereas a focused policy enhances investment efficiency when the safer project is efficient. This paper provides insights into the regulatory debate on enforcement policy.

Keywords: Enforcement Policy, Focused And Uniform Policy, Disclosure Regulation, Project Selection

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yiying and Chen, Yiying, Enforcement Policy, Disclosure Regulation, and Investment Efficiency (September 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5529220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5529220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
73
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies