Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Screening Employees Using Stock Options with Early Vesting Period

36 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025 Last revised: 26 Sep 2025

Dae-Hee Yoon

Yonsei University

Igor Vaysman

CUNY Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Date Written: September 26, 2025

Abstract

We explore vesting periods of executive stock-option grants. A manager's productivity depends on e!ort and on how well the manager matches the firm's needs. But the firm does not directly observe the manager's e!ort or match, and the manager does not know the match with the firm unless the manager joins and works for the firm. We show that options with short and long vesting periods play distinct contracting roles. Options with long vesting provide long-term e!ort incentives for managers. Options with short vesting periods-the main focus of this paper-potentially improve screening of a newly hired manager's match with the firm. By allowing early option exercises, firms create incentives for poorly matched managers to exercise early and voluntarily depart. Conversely, well-matched managers are motivated to stay and reap the full rewards of continued employment; for these managers, options with long vesting provide incentives to exert high e!ort.

Keywords: stock options, vesting period, incentives, screeening

Suggested Citation:

Yoon, Dae-Hee and Vaysman, Igor, Screening Employees Using Stock Options with Early Vesting Period (September 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5533118 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5533118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
49
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies