Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Choice and Voluntary Disclosure

Forthcoming in The Accounting Review

48 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2025 Last revised: 26 Sep 2025

Byeong-Je An

San Diego State University - Finance Department

Suil Pae

Sungkyunkwan University, SKK GSB

Date Written: May 26, 2024

Abstract

This paper presents a model in which investors price risk and a firm makes an investment to reduce its cash flow risk. Subsequently, the firm may or may not privately receive information about the future cash flow, whose disclosure is under its discretion. We show that the equilibrium cash flow precision increases with investor risk aversion, but decreases with the likelihood that the firm has private information and the quality of that information. In addition, the equilibrium probability of disclosure increases when the firm is more likely to have higher-quality private information, but it may increase or decrease when investor risk aversion increases. Using these comparative statics, we rationalize mixed empirical findings on the relation between risk and disclosure as equilibrium outcomes. The model is extended to a setting where the firm also makes an investment to increase the mean of its future cash flow.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Cash Flow Distribution, Firm Efficiency

JEL Classification: D61, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

An, Byeong-Je and Pae, Suil, Risk Choice and Voluntary Disclosure (May 26, 2024). Forthcoming in The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5534040 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5534040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
203
RANK
872,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies