Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic research and development investments: analysing financial success in the drugs and chemicals industry of India

16 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Ashutosh Parhi

KIIT Deemed to be University, School of Management, Students; Centurion University of Technology and Management - Department of Management

Rabi Subudhi

KIIT University - School of Management; Berhampur University; Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT); CUTM Paralakhemundi

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

This empirical research investigates the influence of research and development (R&D)spending on the enterprise's financial success within the Indian pharmacological sector. The pharmaceutical industry faces rapid technological evolution and intense competition. In response to these challenges, strategic R&D investments have emerged as imperative for scientific progress and a fundamental strategy for gaining a competitive advantage. The study focuses on the period 2015 to 2023, examining 50 pharma enterprises listed on the national stock exchange (NSE) of the drugs and chemicals sector. Two key financial performance metrics-returns on assets (ROA), and earnings per share (EPS), are employed, providing a dual perspective on operational efficiency and market perception. The study incorporates control variables, including firm size, leverage ratio, liquidity ratio, and operating margin, to isolate the influence of R&D expenses on an enterprise's financial outcomes. The research contributes to a clear understanding of the complex dynamics of financial performance in the pharmaceutical sector. Practical implications for businesses, investors, and policymakers are highlighted while acknowledging limitations such as data availability constraints and industry-specific focus. The study sets the stage for future research directions, advocating for extended analysis durations, industry-specific inquiries, and the exploration of emerging technologies' impact on R&D.

Keywords: Earnings per share, financial performance, innovation, patent, pharmaceutical company, research and development, expenditure, returns on assets

Suggested Citation:

Parhi, Ashutosh and Subudhi, Rabi, Strategic research and development investments: analysing financial success in the drugs and chemicals industry of India (November 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5559443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5559443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
50
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies