Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increasing the Value of Accounting Theory to Researchers, Practitioners, and Policymakers: A Pragmatic Theory of the Firm

37 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2025

Bartley J. Madden

Florida Atlantic University

Douglas E. Stevens

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Date Written: October 01, 2025

Abstract

We argue that reports of the death of accounting have been greatly exaggerated. We cite recent evidence that market reactions to earnings announcements have dramatically increased in the 21st century and this increase has been driven by large firms. This evidence has largely been ignored because it is inconsistent with prior evidence and cannot be explained by the economic theory of the firm in accounting. The Pragmatic Theory of the Firm (PTF) has proven useful in corporate finance by modeling the firm as a value-creation system and making explicit the connection between the firm's life-cycle financial performance and its market valuation. We demonstrate how the PTF is able to explain the recent change in market reactions, add valuable insights to the balanced scorecard, and address the rising need for accounting for intangible assets. We conclude that the new theory increases the value of accounting theory to researchers, practitioners, and policymakers.

Keywords: agency theory, shared values, social norms, investment decisions, balanced scorecard, intangible assets, pragmatic theory of the firm

JEL Classification: D21, E22, G11, G32, L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Madden, Bartley J. and Stevens, Douglas E., Increasing the Value of Accounting Theory to Researchers, Practitioners, and Policymakers: A Pragmatic Theory of the Firm (October 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5560638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5560638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
156
RANK
889,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies