Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregation Fallacy: An Explanation for Systematic Forecast Bias

51 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025 Last revised: 6 Oct 2025

Karl Schuhmacher

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Jacob Zureich

Lehigh University - College of Business

Michael Burkert

University of Fribourg - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: September 30, 2025

Abstract

In forecasting and capital budgeting, managers tend to underestimate costs. Prior research typically attributes this forecast bias to misaligned incentives or imperfect information. We introduce a novel explanation: aggregation fallacy. The key idea is that individuals provide forecasts of aggregate outcomes (e.g., total costs) by erroneously adding component forecasts (e.g., costs in divisions A and B). While such linear aggregation is appropriate for deterministic information (i.e., costs that have been incurred), it can result in systematic bias with probabilistic information (i.e., future costs) due to right skew in cost distributions. In support of our hypotheses, results of several experiments show that aggregation fallacy leads to systematic underestimation of costs. Additional analyses demonstrate that aggregation fallacy is not eliminated by learning and also holds with financial incentives for forecast accuracy. Overall, our study demonstrates that, even with aligned incentives and perfect information, systematic cost underestimation may arise due to aggregation fallacy.

Keywords: aggregation, fallacy, forecast bias, forecasting, capital budgeting

Suggested Citation:

Schuhmacher, Karl and Zureich, Jacob and Burkert, Michael, Aggregation Fallacy: An Explanation for Systematic Forecast Bias (September 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5561878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5561878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
100
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies