Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of Golden Tax Phase IV construction on changes in corporate tax burden

25 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2025

Zhang Yue

Capital University of Economics and Business

Yi Yang

Capital University of Economics and Business

Abstract

The Golden Tax Phase IV project has deepened the integration and supervision of tax-related data nationwide, which has an important impact on the tax burden of corporations. The study finds that the implementation of Golden Tax Phase IV significantly increases the level of corporate tax burden changes in the short term. The mechanism test results show that the quality of accounting information disclosure plays a negative moderating role, that is, the higher the quality of accounting information disclosure, the lower the level of increase in the level of changes in corporate tax burden due to the implementation of the policy. Further research has found that the effect of the Golden Tax Phase IV project on the level of changes in corporate tax burden is particularly significant in the group of non-state-owned enterprises and enterprises with weak internal control. Various robustness tests verify the reliability of the research findings.

Keywords: Smart Tax Construction, Golden Tax Project IV, Corporate Tax Burden, Accounting Information Disclosure Quality

Suggested Citation:

Yue, Zhang and Yang, Yi, The impact of Golden Tax Phase IV construction on changes in corporate tax burden. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5591188 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5591188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Katarzyna Bilicka
Tax strategy disclosure: A greenwashing mandate?
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2022
Zhou Yan , Hao Yinhui
Big Data Tax Collection and Administration and Quality of Corporate Accounting Information
Finance Research Letters Posted: 2025
A Jiang , J Gao
Tax collection and management technological progress and corporate tax avoidance heterogeneity: Policy effect evaluation based on golden tax Phase-III project
Journal of Shandong University of Finance and Economics , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 20 - 36 Posted: 2023
Markus Diller
Is tax transfer pricing harmonization a panacea? Real effects of global tax transparency and standards consistency
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , p. 71 - 102 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
74
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies