Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double peer effects, deregulation, and audit fees:Evidence from China

58 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2025

Fengzhi Xu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chun Cai

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jason Zezhong Xiao

University of Macau

Jing Ma

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Abstract

This paper examines client and auditor peer effects on audit pricing and the impact of the deregulation of audit pricing in 2014 on the double peer effects in China. We provide the first empirical evidence that both clients and auditors imitate peer audit fees, and these peer effects are stronger in high information asymmetry settings, partly reflecting irrational herding rather than rational learning. However, increased competition resulting from the deregulation significantly reduces auditors’ peer effects (especially among Big 4 auditors that pursue differentiation strategies) and this reduction is associated with audit quality improvement. This study deepens understanding of peer effects in audit pricing and offers valuable insights for policymakers and regulators in promoting market-oriented competition and enhancing audit quality.

Keywords: audit fee, Double peer effect, Deregulation, Auditor competitive strategies

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Fengzhi and Cai, Chun and Xiao, Jason Zezhong and Ma, Jing, Double peer effects, deregulation, and audit fees:Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5598046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5598046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
B Bratten , J L Payne , W B Thomas
Earnings Management: Do Firms Play "Follow the Leader"? Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 616 - 643 Posted: 2016
J R Busenbark , H ( Yoon , ) Elle , D L Gamache , M C Withers
Posted: 2022
Omitted Variable Bias: Examining Management Research With the Impact Threshold of a Confounding Variable (ITCV)
Journal of Management , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 48
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
45
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies