Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of technology adoption on audit strength: The moderating role of firms’ ethical behaviour

45 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Amir Allam

Aston University

Mahmoud Elmarzouky

University of Westminster ; University of Portsmouth

Mostafa H. Alsohagy

Westminster Business School

Ahmed Yamen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The rapid advancement of Information Technology (IT) and the proliferation of sophisticated accounting systems have transformed the audit landscape, necessitating the integration of IT tools for enhanced efficiency and precision. Anchored in the neo-institutional theory framework, this study investigates the relationship between technology adoption, audit strength, and the moderating role of firms’ ethical behaviour. Based on data from 112 countries, the findings reveal that technology adoption significantly enhances audit strength by providing advanced tools for superior monitoring, data analysis, and reporting. However, this relationship is contingent on the ethical practices of firms, with ethical behaviour enabling more responsible and effective use of technology, thereby reinforcing audit outcomes. Conversely, lower ethical standards may diminish these benefits by facilitating the misuse of technology. By integrating formal and informal institutional factors, this study demonstrates how ethics shapes the effectiveness of technology adoption in strengthening audit standards, while also highlighting the conditions under which these effects vary across diverse regulatory and governance contexts. The findings offer critical insights for policymakers, auditors, and organizations seeking to optimise technology adoption within ethical and institutional frameworks, supporting broader debates on the role of digital transformation and governance in ensuring transparency and accountability in future financial systems.

Keywords: Technology Adoption, Auditing Standards, Ethical Behaviour, Information Technology

Suggested Citation:

Allam, Amir and Elmarzouky, Mahmoud and Elmarzouky, Mahmoud and H. Alsohagy, Mostafa and Yamen, Ahmed, The impact of technology adoption on audit strength: The moderating role of firms’ ethical behaviour. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5615682 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5615682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Adhikari , M Bansal , A Kumar
IFRS convergence and accounting quality: India a case study
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 45 Posted: 2021
M G Alles
Drivers of the Use and Facilitators and Obstacles of the Evolution of Big Data by the Audit Profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
D Appelbaum
Securing Big Data Provenance for Auditors: The Big Data Provenance Black Box as Reliable Evidence
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 36 Posted: 2016
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Big data and analytics in the modern audit engagement: Research needs
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
0
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies