Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Error

17 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2004

Joel S. Demski

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Hans Frimor

Aarhus University; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Business and Economics

David E. M. Sappington

University of Florida - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: July 2004

Abstract

We analyze a setting where audit error depends on the ease with which an unaudited measure can be audited, e.g., cash flow versus accrual-based income, and demonstrate that the optimal error rate may be substantially above zero. Though counter-intuitive, this conclusion follows from the fact a measure that is easily audited may provide relatively less of the information that is critical for planning, control and valuation.

Keywords: Audit, error

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Demski, Joel S. and Frimor, Hans and Frimor, Hans and Sappington, David E. M., Audit Error (July 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=567844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.567844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Joel Demski , Hans Frimor , David Sappington
Efficient Manipulation in a Repeated Setting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 49 Posted: 2004-03
Crossref
Gerald Feltham , Jim Xie
Performance Measure Congruity and Diversity in Multi-Task Principal-Agent Relations
Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 429 - 453 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,460
RANK
162,515
1 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies