Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shocks to Shocks: A Theoretical Foundation for the Information Content of Earnings

30 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2004

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 7, 2004

Abstract

This paper rigorously develops and extends the Ball-Brown (1968) and Beaver (1968) measures of the information content of earnings from underlying primitives, using the asset pricing model of Vuolteenaho (2002). The standard Ball-Brown and Beaver measures of information content are obtained by assuming that the time series of (log deflated) earnings are AR(1) with drift and expected future discount rates are inter-temporally constant. The Ball-Brown and Beaver measures of information content are further generalized to the case of dynamic discount rates by assuming initially that (log) expected future discount rates have fixed and dynamic return components such that the dynamic return component is AR(1) with drift. These measures of information content are further generalized to two broad cases: (1) the time series of earnings and expected future discount rates are ARMA(p,q) processes; and (2) the time series of earnings and expected future discount rates follow a log-linear Vector Autoregressive (VAR) process.

One of the more ubiquitous applications of Ball-Brown analysis - and recently of the Beaver approach - involves decomposing earnings into components (e.g., cash flows and accruals) in order to determine which earnings component has greater information content. Closed form solutions of the information content of earnings components are obtained for the standard Ball-Brown and Beaver measures and for the generalizations of these measures.

Keywords: value relevance, earnings, Ball-Brown

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L., Shocks to Shocks: A Theoretical Foundation for the Information Content of Earnings (September 7, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=589021 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.589021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Ang , J Liu
A General Affine Earnings Valuation Model
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 6 , p. 397 - 425 Posted: 2001
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
S Basu
The Conservatism Principle and The Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
W H Beaver
The Information Content Of Annual Earnings Announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
565
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,158
RANK
111,454
10 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Moves the Stock and Bond Markets? A Variance Decomposition for Long-Term Asset Returns

By John Y. Campbell and John Ammer

A Variance Decomposition for Stock Returns

By John Y. Campbell

The Equity Premium

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies