Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Incentives for Inefficient Executive Pay and Reward for Luck

51 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2005 Last revised: 12 Mar 2008

Robert F. Göx

University of Zurich - Managerial Accounting; University of Zurich - Faculty of Economics, Business Administration and Information Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

I study the economic consequences of tax deductibility limits on salaries for the design of incentive contracts. The analysis is based on a simple agency model in which the firm's cash flow is a function of the agent's effort and an observable random factor beyond the agent's control. According to my analysis, limiting the tax deductibility of fixed wages has two consequences. The principal rewards the agent on the basis of the observable random factor and offers him a contract with weaker work incentives than without the tax. The theoretical findings have some interesting implications for empirical compensation research. First, the analysis shows that reward for luck can be the optimal response to recent tax law changes, whereas earlier empirical literature has attributed this phenomenon to managerial entrenchment. Second, I demonstrate that a simple regression analysis that fails to control for separable measures of luck is likely to find an increased pay for performance sensitivity as a response to the introduction of tax deductibility limits on salaries although the pay for performance sensitivity has actually declined.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Reward for Luck, Performance-based pay, Agency Model, Taxes

JEL Classification: D82, C51, C81, J31, J33, K34, M52

Suggested Citation:

Goex, Robert F., Tax Incentives for Inefficient Executive Pay and Reward for Luck. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=823884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.823884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
For qualifying as \performance-based remuneration" a number of requirements must be met, see Balsam and Ryan (1996), or Balsam and Yin (2005) for details and illustrative examples of company practice
For more details Posted: 2003
Balsam and Ryan (2005a), and Balsam and Ryan (2005b), who ¯nd an increased pay for performance relation for executives hired after the introduction of section 162(m)
Similar observations are reported in Rose and Wolfram Posted: 2000
See Bertrand , Mullainathan
The \skimming hypothesis" has been put forward by practitioners such as Crystal (1991) as well as by academics, such as Bebchuk and Fried Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,095
RANK
229,218
5 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies