Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simple Probabilistic Approach to the Pricing of Credit Default Swap Covenants

The Journal of Risk, volume 8, issue 3, 2006[10.21314/JOR.2006.130]

Posted: 8 Oct 2024 Last revised: 24 Feb 2025

Etienne de Malherbe

Heracles Capital Ltd

Date Written: March 31, 2006

Abstract

In its original credit derivatives definitions, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association set out six credit events that can trigger payment on a default swap and many other obligation and settlement clauses that potentially affect the value of a credit default swap. Market participants have since attempted to reduce the list of events that could trigger payouts by eliminating so-called “soft” credit events. Such events are indeed more akin to credit deterioration than default. In many instances, financial institutions are now left with mismatching contract clauses leading to potential “basis risks” in their books (contracts traded before and after changes in market practices but also contracts containing deliberate changes to standard clauses). The purpose of this analysis is to provide a few simple rules for calculating more precisely the impact of the different contract provisions on the price of a default swap.

JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

de Malherbe, Etienne, A Simple Probabilistic Approach to the Pricing of Credit Default Swap Covenants (March 31, 2006). The Journal of Risk, volume 8, issue 3, 2006[10.21314/JOR.2006.130], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=846504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.21314/JOR.2006.130
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
245
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies