Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limited Investor Attention and Stock Market Misreactions to Accounting Information

48 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2005 Last revised: 7 Jul 2011

David Hirshleifer

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business - Finance and Business Economics Department; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Sonya S. Lim

DePaul University - Department of Finance

Siew Hong Teoh

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Date Written: November 17, 2010

Abstract

We provide a model in which a single psychological constraint, limited investor attention, explains both under- and over-reaction to different earnings components. Investor neglect of information in current-period earnings about future earnings induces post-earnings announcement drift and the profit anomaly. Neglect of earnings components causes accruals and cash flows to predict abnormal returns. We derive new untested empirical implications relating the strength of the drift, accruals, cash flows, and profit anomalies to the forecasting power of current earnings-related information for future earnings, the degree of investor attention to different types of information, and the volatilities of and correlation between accruals and cash flows. We also show that owing to costs of attention, in equilibrium some investors may decide not to attend to the implications of earnings or its components.

Keywords: limited attention, behavioral finance, investor psychology, capital markets, accruals, market efficiency

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Hirshleifer, David and Lim, Sonya S. and Teoh, Siew Hong, Limited Investor Attention and Stock Market Misreactions to Accounting Information (November 17, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=846685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.846685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R B Ash
Real Analysis and ProbabilityProbability and Mathematical Statistics Series Posted: 1972
Crossref
Mark E. Bagnoli , Michael B. Clement , Susan G. Watts
Around-the-Clock Media Coverage and the Timing of Earnings Announcements
McCombs Research Paper Series No. ACC-02-06 Pages: 36 Posted: 30 Jul 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K Balakrishnan , E Bartov , L Faurel
Post loss/profit announcement drift
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 20 - 41 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,658
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,868
RANK
24,918
149 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Limited Attention, Information Disclosure, and Financial Reporting

By David Hirshleifer and Siew Hong Teoh

Investor Psychology in Capital Markets: Evidence and Policy Implications

By Kent D. Daniel, David Hirshleifer, ...

Market Frictions, Price Delay, and the Cross-Section of Expected Returns

By Kewei Hou and Tobias J. Moskowitz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies