Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contracting with Repeated Moral Hazard and Private Evaluations

46 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2005

William Fuchs

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Finance; Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 27, 2006

Abstract

A repeated moral hazard setting in which the Principal privately observes the Agent's output is studied. It is shown that there is no loss from restricting the analysis to contracts in which the Agent is supposed to exert effort every period, receives a constant efficiency wage and no feedback until he is fired. The optimal contract for a finite horizon is characterized, and shown to require burning of resources. These are only burnt after the worst possible realization sequence and the amount is independent of both the length of the horizon and the discount factor (delta). For the infinite horizon case a family of fixed interval review contracts is characterized and shown to achieve first best as delta approaches 1. The optimal contract when delta << 1 is partially characterized. Incentives are optimally provided with a combination of efficiency wages and the threat of termination, which will exhibit memory over the whole history of realizations. Finally, Tournaments are shown to provide an alternative solution to the problem.

Keywords: Moral Hazard, Private Monitoring, Efficiency Wages

JEL Classification: C7, D8, D4

Suggested Citation:

Fuchs, William Martin, Contracting with Repeated Moral Hazard and Private Evaluations (October 27, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=852344 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.852344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Dilip ; Abreu , Paul Milgrom , David Pearce
Information and Timing in Repeated Partnerships
Econometrica , volume 59 , issue 6 , p. 1713 - 1746 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Dilip; Abreu , David Pearce , Ennio Stacchetti
Toward a Theory of Discounted Repeated Games with Imperfect Monitoring
Econometrica , volume 58 , issue 5 , p. 1041 - 63 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Massimiliano Amarante
Recursive Structure and Equilibria in Games with Private Monitoring
Economic Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 74 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Masaki Aoyagi
Collusion in Dynamic Bertrand Oligopoly with Correlated Private Signals and Communication
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 229 - 248 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,530
RANK
216,668
34 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Reputations, Relationships and the Enforcement of Incomplete Contracts

By W. Bentley Macleod

Relational Contracts and Competitive Screening

By Giacomo Calzolari and Giancarlo Spagnolo

Discretionary Latitude and Relational Contracting

By Steven Y. Wu and Brian E. Roe

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies