Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Choice of Standards for a Reporting Language

Proceedings of the 9th Asian Logic Conference, May 3, 2006

11 Pages Posted: 16 May 2006

Michal Walicki

University of Bergen

Uwe Wolter

University of Bergen

Jack Douglas Stecher

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The problem of information exchange arises in many contexts, ranging from computer science to linguistics to financial accounting. One aspect of this problem is the choice of whether to use a single standard for all users of information or whether to use different languages for different audiences; this has been of particular interest in international accounting contexts.

This paper creates a framework (specifically, a mathematical category) for studying this issue. Topological spaces are used to model how an agent's understanding of the world is translated into a local reporting language, and a certain class of continuous functions captures when a local reporting environment can be translated into a standardized language. In general, standardization comes at the cost of allowing less information to be transmitted.

The category presented here provides a method for studying settings where agents are not aware of the same objects and also for settings where agents need their standards to be not only mutually agreeable but also acceptable to outside parties. Thus, unawareness and incomplete contracting have natural interpretations in the framework presented here.

Keywords: Subjective information, financial reporting, standardization, language

JEL Classification: M41, M47, D82, C65

Suggested Citation:

Walicki, Michal and Wolter, Uwe and Stecher, Jack Douglas, The Choice of Standards for a Reporting Language. Proceedings of the 9th Asian Logic Conference, May 3, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=901242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M C René , Ahn
Agents, Objects, and Events: A Computational Approach to Knowledge, Observation, and Communication Posted: 2000
G Harold , Avery
Accounting as a language
The Accounting Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 90 Posted: 1953
Eli Bartov , Stephen R. Goldberg , Myungsun Kim
Comparative Value Relevance Among German, U.S. And International Accounting Standards: A German Stock Market Perspective
Pages: 31 Posted: 4 Sep 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fasb
Qualitative characteristics of accounting information. Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts
Financial Accounting Standards Board Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,333
RANK
240,980
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

A Category for Studying the Standardization of Reporting Languages

By Michal Walicki, Uwe Wolter, ...

The Choice of Standards for a Reporting Language

By Michal Walicki, Uwe Wolter, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies