Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VC Funds: Aging Brings Myopia

EFA 2006 Zurich Meetings Paper

55 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2006

Eugene Kandel

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Department of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Dima Leshchinskii

Menlo College

Harry Yuklea

The Technion, IE&M Faculty; Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration; S. Neaman Institute at the Technion

Date Written: May 2006

Abstract

We study the conflict of interests between the limited partners (LPs) and the general partner (GP) in a VC fund with a limited life span. LPs commit money to investments in risky projects, while the GP selects projects and provides unobservable monitoring effort. We assume that midway into the project, the GP privately observes its quality and the estimated time to exit and decides whether to continue investing and monitoring. The limited time horizon of the fund forces the GP to dispose of any unfinished projects when the fund is dissolved. This, combined with the informational advantage of the GP, leads to inefficient decisions during the intermediate investment stages.

This paper presents a simple model that identifies two types of such inefficiency. We show that when unfinished projects are fairly priced in the market, bad projects are always continued. At the same time, under a wide range of parameter values good projects with a somewhat longer expected completion time may be effectively discontinued, when the GP opportunistically decides not to invest monitoring effort in them. We discuss several contractual amendments to alleviate the problem. First, we show that reduction of the GP's stake in all the unfinished projects can significantly weaken his incentives to prolong bad projects. This in turn may induce the GP to put effort into the delay-prone good projects, since their price increases. An outright termination of all unfinished projects, as practiced by some VC funds, is similar in nature, but leads to suboptimal early write-offs of some good projects. We also show that allocating non-vested cash (but not decision) rights in the unfinished projects to the GP has similar beneficial effects. Finally, we provide some evidence that is suggestive of the significant extent of the problem in the post-2000 period.

Keywords: Venture Capital, investment decision, agency problems

JEL Classification: G24, G32

Suggested Citation:

Kandel, Eugene and Leshchinskii, Dima and Yuklea, Harry, VC Funds: Aging Brings Myopia (May 2006). EFA 2006 Zurich Meetings Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=905963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.905963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Anat R Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
Robust Financial Contracting and the Role of Venture Capital
Journal of Finance , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 402 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Philippe Aghion
Exit Options in Corporate Finance: Liquidity versus Incentives
Review of Finance , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 327 - 353 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Chong-En Bai , Yijiang Wang
Agency in Project Screening and Termination Decisions: Why is Good Money Thrown after Bad?
Pages: 55 Posted: 20 May 1997
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Efraim Benmelech
Asset Salability and Debt Maturity: Evidence from 19th Century American Railroads Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,202
RANK
210,151
15 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Venture Capital and the Structure of Capital Markets: Banks Versus Stock Markets

By Ronald J. Gilson and Bernard S. Black

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies