Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Deprival Value’ vs ‘Fair Value’ Measurement for Contract Liabilities: How to Resolve the ‘Revenue Recognition’ Conundrum?

Accounting and Business Research, 41, no. 5: 491–514.

48 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2006 Last revised: 19 Jul 2013

Joanne Horton

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Revenue recognition and measurement principles can conflict with liability recognition and measurement principles. We explore here under different market conditions when the two measurement approaches coincide and when they conflict. We show that where entities expect to earn ‘super profits’ (residual income) the conceptual conflict is exacerbated by the adoption of ‘fair value’ (FV) as the measurement basis for assets and liabilities rather than the more theoretically grounded approach of ‘deprival value/relief value’ (DV/RV) which better reflects the impact of, and rational management response to, varying market conditions. However, while the problems of balance-sheet liability and revenue recognition, and the related problems of income statement presentation, can be resolved by the application of DV/RV reasoning, this is not sufficient fully to resolve issues of the appropriate timing of profit recognition. Performance measurement issues still need to be addressed directly. The standard setters’ current projects on ‘revenue recognition’, ‘insurance contracts’, and ‘measurement’ therefore need broadening to consider the pervasive issue of accounting for internally-generated intangibles.

Keywords: Fair value, deprival value, contract liabilities, revenue recognition

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Horton, Joanne and Macve, Richard H. and Serafeim, George, ‘Deprival Value’ vs ‘Fair Value’ Measurement for Contract Liabilities: How to Resolve the ‘Revenue Recognition’ Conundrum? (2011). Accounting and Business Research, 41, no. 5: 491–514., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=913363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
A Framework for Financial Reporting Standards: Issues and a Suggested Model
AAA, Financial Accounting Standards Committee , volume 24 , p. 471 - 485 Posted: 2010
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly journal of economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 88 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Discussion paper: Revenue Recognition
ASB Posted: 2001
R Barker
Reporting Financial Performance. Accounting horizons , volume 18 , p. 157 - 172 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,019
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,113
RANK
51,016
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Recognition and Measurement of Liabilities in IFRS

By Richard Barker and Anne Mcgeachin

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies