Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Benefits of Allowing CEOs to Time Their Stock Option Exercises

42 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2006 Last revised: 13 Oct 2007

Volker Laux

University of Texas at Austin; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 26, 2007

Abstract

This paper shows that permitting executives to use inside information to time their option exercises can be part of an optimal pay arrangement. This is the case even though timing discretion enables executives to avoid losses by cashing out options on bad news, weakening the link between pay and performance. In the model, the CEO must be motivated to search for and implement a new project and to abandon it as soon as he observes private negative information. While at-the-money options are effective in inducing effort, they fail to induce good abandonment decisions in the sense that they bias the CEO in favor of continuing the project. When the CEO is free to unload (vested) stock options at will, he will do so whenever he learns bad news about the project. This behavior is beneficial to shareholders because after cashing out his options, the CEO is no longer biased, and hence is willing to abandon bad projects.

Keywords: corporate governance, insider trading, executive compensation, executive stock options, real options, timing of stock option exercises

JEL Classification: G34, K22, J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Laux, Volker, On the Benefits of Allowing CEOs to Time Their Stock Option Exercises (September 26, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=939886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.939886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Arya , J Glover
Abandonment options and information system design
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 8 , p. 29 - 45 Posted: 2003
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
Earnings and price-based compensation contracts in the presence of discretionary trading and incomplete contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 93 - 121 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
The relation among capital markets, financial disclosure, production efficiency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Crossref
O Bar-Gill , L A Bebchuk
The cost of permitting managers to sell shares Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,079
RANK
242,713
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies