Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Keynesian Beauty Contest, Accounting Disclosure, and Market Efficiency

34 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2007

Pingyang Gao

HKU Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2007

Abstract

This paper examines the market efficiency consequences of accounting disclosure in the context of stock markets as a Keynesian beauty contest, an influential metaphor originally proposed by Keynes (1936) and recently formalized by Allen, Morris, and Shin (2006). In such markets, public information plays an additional coordination role, biasing stock prices away from the consensus fundamental value toward public information. Despite this bias, I demonstrate that provisions of public information always drives stock prices closer to the fundamental value. Hence, as a main source of public information, accounting disclosure enhances market efficiency, and transparency should not be compromised on grounds of the Keynesian beauty contest effect.

Keywords: Short Horizons, Keynesian Beauty Contest, Rational Expectations, Price Efficiency, Disclosure, Social Welfare, Information

JEL Classification: M41, M45, G38, D82

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Pingyang, Keynesian Beauty Contest, Accounting Disclosure, and Market Efficiency (August 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=959060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.959060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A R Admati
A Noisy Rational Expectations Equilibrium for Multi-Asset Securities Markets
Econometrica , volume 53 , p. 629 - 658 Posted: 1985
Crossref
F Allen , S Morris , H S Shin
Beauty Contests and Iterated Expectations in Asset Markets
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P Bacchetta , E Van Wincoop
Can information dispersion explain the exchange rate disconnect puzzle, The American Economic Review forthcoming Posted: 2007
S Bikhchandani , D Hirshleifer , I Welch
Learning from the Behavior of Others: Conformity, Fads, and Informational Cascades
The Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 12 , p. 151 - 170 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
706
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,208
RANK
83,666
9 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies