Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Licensing Intellectual Property with Self-Reported Outcomes

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 07-100

35 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2007 Last revised: 28 Sep 2010

Romana L. Autrey

Willamette University - Atkinson Graduate School of Management

Richard C. Sansing

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: September 21, 2010

Abstract

This study examines the effect of a firm’s information system on the use of intellectual property. We analyze the licensing of intellectual property in exchange for royalties that depend on the self-report of a licensee. Self-reporting gives rise to demand for auditing by the licensor or third-party attestation by the licensee. We characterize the optimal royalty contract, information system choice by the licensee, and audit strategy choice by the licensor. We find that the ability to use intellectual property in the most efficient way depends on the costs of the information system, the auditing process, and the attestation process. We find that variable royalty arrangements that depend on either audited self-reports or third-party attestation become more attractive as information system costs decrease and as the benefits from outsourcing the use of intellectual property increase. We also examine how the variability of payoffs to effort affects the optimal way the owner of the intellectual property uses it.

Keywords: Royalties, licensing, strategic auditing, contract compliance, forensic accounting

JEL Classification: D45, M42

Suggested Citation:

Autrey, Romana L. and Sansing, Richard C., Licensing Intellectual Property with Self-Reported Outcomes (September 21, 2010). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 07-100, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=971998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.971998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Enhancing vertical efficiency through horizontal licensing
Journal of Regulatory Economics , volume 29 , p. 333 - 342 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J P Choi
Technology transfer with moral hazard
International Journal of Industrial Organization , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 266 Posted: 2001-01
Crossref
J Dana , K Spier
Revenue sharing and vertical control in the video rental industry
The Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 223 - 245 Posted: 2001-09
R Dhar , B N Anand
Licensing Industry Survey
The International Licensing Industry Merchandisers' Association Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,713
RANK
154,735
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Impact of Licensing on Investment and Financing of Technology Development

By Nalin Kulatilaka and Lihui Lin

Network Effects and Technology Licensing with Fixed Fee, Royalty, and Hybrid Contracts

By Lihui Lin and Nalin Kulatilaka

Impacts of Organizational Learning and Knowledge Transfer on Investment Decisions Under Uncertainty

By Xianjun Geng, Lihui Lin, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies