Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ivar Kreuger Reborn: A Swedish/American Accounting Fraud Resurfaces in Italy and India

24 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2007

Gaurav Kumar

University of Arkansas at Little Rock

Dale L. Flesher

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Tonya Flesher

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 1, 2007

Abstract

Accounting fraud has been widely publicized in recent years, especially the large frauds perpetrated at U. S. companies such as Enron and WorldCom, but frauds are not country specific, and similar events have occurred in the past decade in many countries, including Italy and India. What is noticeable about the Italian Parmalat fraud and the Indian UTI fraud is their similarity to the Swedish/American fraud perpetrated for many years by Ivar Kreuger and uncovered in 1932. Although the Kreuger & Toll fraud was discovered following the suicide of Kreuger in March 1932, he, or at least his ideas about accounting and auditing, have been reborn in Italy and India. The Parmalat and UTI cases shared many similarities to that of Kreuger, particularly his view that audits and periodic reporting to shareholders were unnecessary. Whether talking about the Ivar Kreuger of 1932, the Indian UTI episode of the 1990s, or Parmalat of 2004, the story is the same; history repeats itself.

Keywords: Ivar Kreuger, Accounting Fraud, Parmalat, UTI

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Gaurav and Flesher, Dale L. and Flesher, Tonya, Ivar Kreuger Reborn: A Swedish/American Accounting Fraud Resurfaces in Italy and India (July 1, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1025525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1025525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
K E Adajania
Payback Time Posted: 2004-06-01
UTI MF Champion Again Posted: 2006-10-16
Chandra Sekhar , Y
Losing the Race
Chartered Financial Analyst Posted: 2001-02
A Dutta
Where Trust's Gone Posted: 2001-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
544
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,536
RANK
116,972
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies