Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Complete Guide to Sarbanes-Oxley

THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO SARBANES-OXLEY, Adams Business, 2007

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 07-17

42 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2007

Stephen M. Bainbridge

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Abstract

Turning 5 is a major milestone, whether one is talking about a child, a wedding anniversary, or a piece of legislation. As the Sarbanes-Oxley Act approaches age 5, it's appropriate to look back at how the Act has affected American businesses and also to look forward to assess future trends. After all, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act had the biggest impact on American business of any federal securities legislation since the New Deal.

Understanding how Sarbanes-Oxley works and the demands it makes on corporations is especially critical for directors and managers of smaller public corporations. Until recently, the smallest public corporations have been partially insulated from the full costs of complying with the Act by Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission or SEC) rules deferring full application of SOX to such firms. The SEC has announced, however, that this limited regulatory relief will be coming to an end within the next two years. Accordingly, it appears that all public corporations will be required to fully comply Sarbanes-Oxley by 2008 at the latest.

Managers and directors of small public corporations thus now face the same questions SOX has long posed for the largest companies: How do they comply with SOX? How does SOX affect relations within the firm? Should the company go private (a.k.a. "going dark") so as to avoid the need to comply with SOX. A practical guide to SOX basics thus could not be more timely.

This is not a book for lawyers or accountants. I don't want you to get bogged down in legal or accounting technicalities. Rather, it is a non-technical, "plain English" guide for the managers and directors of the 13,000 or so thousand publicly held corporations subject to Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as the managers and directors of the thousands of large closely held corporations considering raising capital via an IPO, which would subject them to SOX, or otherwise facing market pressures to at least partially comply with SOX.

The downloadable paper includes the Table of Comments and Chapter 1 of The Complete Guide to Sarbanes-Oxley.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley, SOX, corporate governance, corporation law, securities law, securities regulation

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Bainbridge, Stephen Mark, The Complete Guide to Sarbanes-Oxley. THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO SARBANES-OXLEY, Adams Business, 2007, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 07-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1028033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,615
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,925
RANK
25,945
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies