Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill/Intangibles Rules, Earnings Management and Competition

62 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2007 Last revised: 12 Dec 2013

Michael C. I. Nwogugu

Independent

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This article analyzes several problems and psychological issues pertaining to the enforcement and efficiency of the US Goodwill and Intangibles accounting regulations (SFAS #141R, Business Combinations, and SFAS #142, Accounting for Goodwill and Intangible Assets). These regulations are likely to increase the incidence of fraud and misconduct. This article introduces a new Goodwill/intangibles disclosure/accounting model that can reduce the incidence of fraud, information asymmetry, moral hazard, adverse selection and inaccuracy; and also introduces new economic psychological theories that can explain fraud, misconduct and non-compliance arising from the implementation of SFAS 141R/142. The issues analyzed and theories developed in this article are applicable to International Accounting Standards Board’s (IASB) IFRS-3R (Business Combinations (Goodwill accounting) and IAS 38 Intangible Assets (accounting for Intangible Assets).

Keywords: Evidence and legal process, fraud, Mergers & Acquisitions, disclosure, economic psychology, goodwill, complexity, intangibles

Suggested Citation:

Nwogugu, Michael C. I., Goodwill/Intangibles Rules, Earnings Management and Competition (2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1068123 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1068123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
&amp; Blanton , Christie
Posted: 2003
Crossref
Bontis
Posted: 2003
Crossref
Thompson Flesher , ; Hoskins , P Banegil , R Sanguino Galvan
Posted: 1991-08
AASB-3: Business Combinations Posted: 2004-07
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
Real Options, Enforcement of Goodwill/Intangibles Rules, and Associated Behavioral Issues
24 Pages · Posted: 4 Jul 2009 · Last revised: 6 Jan 2014 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
Biases, Evolutionary Processes and Homomorphisms in Options-Based Indices and Traditional Stock/Bond Index Methods in Incomplete Markets with Un-Aggregated Preferences and NT-Utilities
49 Pages · Posted: 13 Jun 2010 · Last revised: 3 Nov 2015 · Downloads: 174
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
Strategic Decisions, Risk Management and Strategic Alliances: The Case of Corporate Governance at Akamai Technologies; Openwave Systems; Novell; Ask.Com (Ask Jeeves); and Firstwave Technologies, Inc.
36 Pages · Posted: 5 Nov 2015 · Downloads: 176
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
Dynamics In Markets And Complex Adaptive Systems: A Review
35 Pages · Posted: 23 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 118
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,142
RANK
45,454
4 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Misadventure and the Form of Payment in Corporate Acquisitions

By Tyrone M. Carlin, Guy Ford, ...

Corporate Governance, Credit Risk and Legal Reasoning - the Case of Encompass Services Inc.

By Michael C. I. Nwogugu

Financial Accounting and Corporate Behavior

By David I. Walker

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies