Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gatekeeper Liability Versus Regulation of Wrongdoers

Ohio Northern University Law Review, Vol. 34, No. 2, pp. 483-522, 2008

36 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2008 Last revised: 27 Feb 2011

Ke Steven Wan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - School of Law

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

A legal regime that imposes civil or criminal liability directly on wrongdoers is limited in terms of deterring unlawful conduct. Direct liability may fail to deter when wrongdoing is difficult for victims to detect or for the government to prosecute, or when wrongdoers have limited assets. Although criminal liability may deter wrongdoing by those with limited assets, it does not compensate victims. Furthermore, imprisonment is not a realistic sanction against corporations. Corporate scandals, such as the collapse of Enron, have underlined the use of gatekeepers - lawyers, auditors and underwriters - as a means of deterring corporate fraud. Gatekeeper liability, however, also has limitations and disadvantages. There is no consensus about the scope of such liability, and gatekeepers are not in a good position to deter misconduct effectively in all contexts. The desirability of imposing liability on gatekeepers depends on whether they are in a good position to deter misconduct at acceptable costs. In addition, because gatekeeper liability increases the price of the goods or service, it may have an inevitable tradeoff between preventing misconduct and the market distortions it causes. It may drive out law-abiding clients as well as wrongdoers. In this case, regulation of wrongdoers may be an appealing alternative.

Professor Steven Shavell only discusses the choice between liability of direct infringers and regulation of direct infringers. Scant attention has been given, however, to the choice between gatekeeper liability and regulation of direct infringers. In this essay, I compare gatekeeper liability with regulation of direct infringers.

Keywords: gatekeeper liability, government regulation, direct infringers, joint use, insurance, cost, architecture

Suggested Citation:

Wan, Ke Steven, Gatekeeper Liability Versus Regulation of Wrongdoers (2008). Ohio Northern University Law Review, Vol. 34, No. 2, pp. 483-522, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1134111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Coffee
Kraakman
, p. 100 - 101
Id
Id
proposing a four-part test for the desirability of gatekeeper liability)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,808
RANK
170,545
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies