Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Ethical Perceptions: A Study of Future South African Chartered Accountants

Posted: 24 May 2008

Manuel de Freitas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

sandra van Esh

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Date Written: 2002

Abstract

The frequent reporting of corporate fraud and corruption, as exemplified by sensentional news items and anecdotal evidence, serves as an indication of a certain degree of lack of ethics within the South African business sector. In this paper the ethical behavior of future chartered accountants is examined through the administration of an international questionnaire. The survey instrument was adjusted for the South African situation. The findings indicate that religious orientation,ethical orientation and gender are related to perceptions of ethical classroom behavior, while ethical orientation and age are related to perceptions of ethical professional behavior.

Keywords: ethnical perceptions, South African accounting students, professional ethics

Suggested Citation:

de Freitas, Manuel and van Esh, sandra and Negash, Minga, Determinants of Ethical Perceptions: A Study of Future South African Chartered Accountants (2002). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1134264
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies