Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Causes of Variances in Operational Outputs of Manufacturing Organizations: A Forensic Accounting Investigation Approach

17 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2008

Enyi Patrick Enyi

Babcock University - School of Management Sciences

Date Written: June 1, 2008

Abstract

With the introduction of the International Standard on Auditing number 240 (ISA240) there has been a paradigm shift in auditing as auditors are now required to identify and assess the risks of material misstatements due to fraud at the financial statement level and to evaluate the sufficiency, implementation and the effectiveness of the controls related to those assessed prone to fraud. This, of course, implies that statutory audit must now take the garb of forensic investigations. The problem with the present system of forensic investigation is that it is focused more on financial transactions than on the totality of the entity's operations and often time neglects areas where there have been constant leakages of other organizational resources that are of financial consequences but which are not easily detected with a normal analysis of the financial statement. This paper attempts to offer suggestions using real case problem on how to apply forensic accounting in investigating variances and suspected fraudulent activities in manufacturing processes. It employs both empirical and supervised experimental modules integrated with the normal audit tools in unearthing fraudulent acts perpetrated over many accounting periods.

Keywords: Audit, Forensic Accounting, Investigations, Financial Statements, Internal Control, Fraud, Procedure

JEL Classification: M41, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Enyi, Enyi Patrick, Detecting Causes of Variances in Operational Outputs of Manufacturing Organizations: A Forensic Accounting Investigation Approach (June 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1144783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1144783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
N G Apostolou , D Crumbley
Forensic Investigations: Red flogs Retrieved September , volume 4 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A A Arens , R J Elder , M S Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Services -An Integrated Approach Posted: 2006
A A Asein
Lagos: Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria
The Nigerian Accountant , volume 40 , issue 3 Posted: 2007
D L Crumbley
Journal of Forensic Accounting Posted: 2007-04-11
Load more
10 Citations
Godwin Emmanuel Oyedokun
Forensic Investigation and Forensic Audit Methodology in a Computerized Work Environment
20 Pages · Posted: 12 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 2,522
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Godwin Emmanuel Oyedokun
Integrity of Financial Statements and Forensic Accounting Techniques in Internal Control of Business Organisations
102 Pages · Posted: 5 Nov 2016 · Downloads: 1,458
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Saja Hashem , Afraa Ali , Haider Haider
The Impact of Forensic Accounting Techniques in Detecting Financial Fraud 'Survey Study of The Opinions of Certified Accountants in Syria'
STEPS in BUSINESS EXCELLENCE , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Hakan Aracı , Ece Çevik Özcan
Adli Muhasebe: Adli Muhasebecilik Mesleği Yetkinlikleri, Önemi ve Türkiye’deki Yeri
Yönetim ve Ekonomi Dergisi , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 801 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,682
RANK
37,862
10 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies