Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Benefits: Two Distinct Options to Cheat on the State?

IZA Discussion Paper No. 3536

35 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2008 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Martin Halla

Gesundheit Österreich GmbH (GÖG); Johannes Kepler University Linz - Department of Economics; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Friedrich Schneider

Johannes Kepler University Linz - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research); Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA)

Abstract

While there is an extensive literature on tax evasion a further aspect of cheating on the state, namely benefit fraud, has gained relatively modest attention in the economic literature. This paper seeks to fill this gap. We explore differences between benefit fraud and tax evasion due to differing social norms. We define the concepts of benefit morale and tax morale as the motivation to abstain from cheating on the state via these two offenses. Our multilevel analysis, based on a large micro data set of respondents from 29 OECD member countries, shows that benefit morale and tax morale have different determinants at an individual-level and respond differently to fiscal policy measures.

Keywords: tax morale, multilevel analysis, welfare fraud, benefit fraud, tax evasion, tax, social norms, subsidies, benefit morale

JEL Classification: H20, H26, H44, A13

Suggested Citation:

Halla, Martin and Schneider, Friedrich G., Taxes and Benefits: Two Distinct Options to Cheat on the State?. IZA Discussion Paper No. 3536, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1145915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Chunrong Ai , Edward C Norton
Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit Models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Michael G Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
James Alm , Benno Torgler
Culture Differences and Tax Morale in the United States and Europe
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 224 - 246 Posted: 2006
James Alm , Betty R Jackson
Fiscal Exchange, Collective Decision Institutions, and Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 285 - 303 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,598
RANK
275,154
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Is the Welfare State Self-Destructive? A Study of Government Benefit Morale

By Friedrich Heinemann

An Essay on Welfare State Dynamics

By Assar Lindbeck

An Empirical Analysis of the Dynamics of the Welfare State: The Case of Benefit Morale

By Martin Halla, Mario Lackner, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies