Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Intrusion into Internal Corporate Governance: The Accounting Provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Two Decades After its Initial Passage (A 20th Anniversary Review)

Florida State University, Journal of Transnational Law and Policy, 1998

31 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2008 Last revised: 12 Jul 2009

Barbara Crutchfield George

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration

Kathleen A. Lacey

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration

Date Written: March 1, 1998

Abstract

To strengthen the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, Congress included provisions in the original Act, and in later amendments, requiring recordkeeping and internal accounting controls for both domestic corporations involved in international business and purely domestic corporations. The significant effect of the passage of the accounting sections was to move SEC authority beyond the traditional disclosure requirements of earlier legislation. The FCPA granted the SEC authority over the entire financial management and reporting requirements of those corporations subject to SEC regulation. On the FCPA's twenty-year anniversary, expansion of the SEC's authority remains a source of concern for the business community because it is a potential tool for extensive federal intrusion into internal corporate affairs.

Keywords: SEC enforcement

Suggested Citation:

George, Barbara Crutchfield and Lacey, Kathleen A., Federal Intrusion into Internal Corporate Governance: The Accounting Provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Two Decades After its Initial Passage (A 20th Anniversary Review) (March 1, 1998). Florida State University, Journal of Transnational Law and Policy, 1998, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1150364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
One of the goals stated in the Trade Act is to "improve the development and management of U. S. trade strategy
Cong , Rec
S2589-90 , volume 18 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Supra note 32
Trade Act of 1988, supra note 5
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,489
RANK
306,185
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies