Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Fraud at Xerox Corporation

15 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2008

Amy Butala

Eastern Michigan University

Zafar Khan

Eastern Michigan University

Date Written: June 28, 2008

Abstract

The accounting and ethical issues at Xerox in the late 1990s were many and highly interesting. It appears that Management at Xerox Corporation faced with strategic mistakes and a tough economic environment including Japanese competition resorted to creative accounting practices to meet financial targets and Wall Street expectations. This case presents a brief history of Xerox Corporation going back to 1906 when Xerox was founded in New York. This is followed by a discussion of Xerox's corporate culture in the 1980s and 90s and the SEC investigation of its accounting practices in the 1990s. The focus of the case is the actions of an assistant treasurer, James Bingham, one of several finance managers that top management used to guide Xerox through tough economic times and help make financial results go their way. Mr. Bingham, at least initially, viewed helping management meet financial targets as a challenge. However, in due course he realized that all he is doing is help mask bigger and bigger problems that would lead Xerox in only one direction-bankruptcy.

A short teaching note is also included. The teaching note includes several suggested questions along with a brief discussion. The focus in the teaching note is on the actions of James Bingham and ethical issues. The case also presents an opportunity to present or reintroduce the Institute of Management Accountant's Statement of Ethical Professional Practice to students. The IMA's Statement of Ethical Professional Practice provides guidance for accountants to act in a responsible and ethical manner in conducting their day to day activities. The case requires the students to apply the IMA's Statement of Ethical Professional Practice to the actions of James Bingham and other accounting personnel at Xerox Corporation.

Keywords: Case, Ethics, Accounting Fraud

JEL Classification: M40, M14, M41, M43, M46

Suggested Citation:

Butala, Amy and Khan, Zafar U., Accounting Fraud at Xerox Corporation (June 28, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1152770 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1152770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,445
ABSTRACT VIEWS
23,353
RANK
5,113
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies