Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Doing God's Work?

Problems and Perspectives in Management Journal, Vol.12, Issue 1, 2014, pp.108-110

3 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2008 Last revised: 23 Aug 2025

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Date Written: July 9, 2008

Abstract

This case highlights the weaknesses of the accrual-deferral basis of accounting which provides the theoretical foundations for both the U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). While accounting theory is often addressed in an accounting doctoral seminar limited to some high priests only, the implications of accrual-deferral accounting are much more profound and beguiling. It projects an aura of objectivity and scientific precision in measurement that are sorely missing in modern accounting practice. Fortunately, most people do not understand the degrees of managerial discretion allowed by both the GAAP and the IFRS in preparing financial statements. While the proponents of the the very strong form of efficient market hypothesis (EMH) contend that an efficient market can see through any potential foul play by managers, naive investors are well advised to look at these financial statements with an appropriate dose of skepticism. Financial statements are not prepared for the man on the Clapham omnibus to take a pleasure reading ride. It is an artful handicraft of the accountants, by the accountants, and for the accountants to interpret only! Naive investors might be up for surprises if they are in a self-help mode.

Keywords: Fraud, Accrual Accounting, Cash basis Accounting, GAAP, GAAS, IFRS, Naive investors, Wall Street, Political Economy, Institutions, FASB, IASB

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H., Doing God's Work? (July 9, 2008). Problems and Perspectives in Management Journal, Vol.12, Issue 1, 2014, pp.108-110 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1157527 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1157527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
RANK
556,453
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies