Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethical Spillovers in Firms: Evidence from Vehicle Emissions Testing

29 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2008

Lamar Pierce

Washington University, Saint Louis - John M. Olin School of Business

Jason Snyder

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Date Written: July 10, 2008

Abstract

In this paper we explore how organizations influence the unethical behavior of their employees. Using a unique dataset of over 3 million vehicle emissions tests, we find strong evidence of ethical spillovers from firms to individuals. When inspectors work across different organizations, they adjust the rate at which they pass vehicles to the norms of those with whom they work. These spillovers are strongest at large facilities and corporate chains, and weakest for the large-volume inspectors. These results are consistent with the economics literature on productivity spillovers from organizations and peers and suggest that managers can influence the ethics of employee behavior through both formal norms and incentives. The results also suggest that employees have persistent ethics that limit the magnitude of this influence. These results imply that if ethical conformity is important to the financial and legal health of the organization, managers must be vigilant in their hiring, training, and monitoring in order to ensure that employee behavior is consistent with firm objectives.

Keywords: peer effects, spillovers, fraud, corruption, productivity, ethics

Suggested Citation:

Pierce, Lamar and Snyder, Jason, Ethical Spillovers in Firms: Evidence from Vehicle Emissions Testing (July 10, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1157996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1157996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
P Almeida , B Kogut
Localization of knowledge and the mobility of engineers in regional networks
Management Science , volume 45 , issue 7 , p. 905 - 917 Posted: 1990
Crossref
B Ashford , V Anand
The normalization of corruption in organizations
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 25 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J D Beams , R M Brown , L N Killough
An experiment testing the determinants of noncompliance with insider trading laws
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 45 , issue 4 , p. 309 - 323 Posted: 2003
M S Bertrand , Mullainathan
Do people mean what they say? Implications for subjective survey data
American Economic Review , volume 91 , p. 67 - 72 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
12 Citations
Lamar Pierce , Michael W. Toffel
The Role of Organizational Scope and Governance in Strengthening Private Monitoring
Forthcoming, Organization Science · 59 Pages · Posted: 16 Jul 2010 · Last revised: 15 Oct 2012 · Downloads: 331
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dina Mayzlin , Yaniv Dover , Judith A. Chevalier
Promotional Reviews: An Empirical Investigation of Online Review Manipulation
NBER Working Paper No. w18340 · 51 Pages · Posted: 25 Aug 2012 · Last revised: 11 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 75
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel W. Gingerich , Virginia Oliveros , Ana Corbacho , Mauricio Ruiz-Vega
Corruption as a Self-Fulfilling Prophecy: Evidence from a Survey Experiment in Costa Rica
IDB Working Paper No. IDB-WP-546 · 31 Pages · Posted: 20 Mar 2015 · Downloads: 181
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael Housman , Dylan Minor
Organizational Design and Space: The Good, the Bad, and the Productive
Harvard Business School Working Paper 16-147 · 42 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2016 · Last revised: 6 Nov 2016 · Downloads: 1,406
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,254
RANK
394,837
12 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Peer Effects with Random Assignment: Results for Dartmouth Roommates

By Bruce Sacerdote

Peer Effects with Random Assignment: Results for Dartmouth Roommates

By Bruce Sacerdote

The Company You Keep: The Effects of Family and Neighborhood on Disadvantaged Youths

By Anne Case and Lawrence F. Katz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies