Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Monitoring, Audit Committee Effectiveness, and Financial Reporting Quality: Review and Synthesis of Empirical Evidence

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 1, No. 2, July-December 2009

42 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2008 Last revised: 15 Oct 2010

Luo He

Concordia University, Quebec - John Molson School of Business

Réal Labelle

HEC Montréal - Stephen A. Jarislowsky Chair in Governance

Charles Piot

Univ. Grenoble Alpes; University of Angers - Centre de Recherches Appliquées à la Gestion (CERAG)

Daniel B. Thornton

Smith School of Business at Queen's University

Date Written: December 31, 2009

Abstract

We review and synthesize the results of empirical studies of associations between corporate oversight measures and financial reporting quality (FRQ). We examine two oversight components, board characteristics and audit committee characteristics. For each component, we summarize associations between variables contributing to monitoring effectiveness and three presumptive FRQ monitoring outcomes: (1) ex post consequences of low FRQ, such as financial reporting fraud; (2) earnings management measures, such as abnormal accruals; and (3) perceived informativeness of financial reports, manifest in earnings-returns associations, earnings response coefficients, and analyst perceptions of FRQ. Our classification scheme provides a coherent framework for synthesizing the implications of empirical findings, highlighting the role of different corporate governance variables in enhancing different aspects of FRQ. This synthesis has the potential to inform regulators, boards of directors, and forensic accountants who are concerned with improving the oversight of public corporations and reducing opportunities for managers and others to engage in financial fraud.

Keywords: Audit Committees, Board of Directors, Earnings Management, Financial Reporting Quality, Fraud, Value Relevance of Earnings.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

He, Luo and Labelle, Réal and Piot, Charles and Thornton, Daniel B., Board Monitoring, Audit Committee Effectiveness, and Financial Reporting Quality: Review and Synthesis of Empirical Evidence (December 31, 2009). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 1, No. 2, July-December 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1159453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effect of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Juma Bananuka , Sadress Night , Muhammed Ngoma , Grace Muganga Najjemba
Internet Financial Reporting Adoption: Exploring the Influence of Board Role Performance and Isomorphic Forces
Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 24, No. 48, 2019 · 22 Pages · Posted: 9 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 57
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marziana Madah Marzuki , Noor Marini Haji-Abdullah , Rohana Othman , Effiezal Aswadi Abdul Wahab , Iman Harymawan
Audit Committee Characteristics, Board Diversity, and Fraudulent Financial Reporting in Malaysia
Asian Academy of Management Journal, 24(2), 143–167, 2019. DOI/10.21315/aamj2019.24.2.7, · 25 Pages · Posted: 20 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 570
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hebatallah Badawy
Audit Committee Effectiveness and Corporate Sustainable Growth: The Case of Egypt
Alexandria Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2020 · 34 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 202
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel Broxterman , Tingyu Zhou
Information Frictions in Real Estate Markets: Recent Evidence and Issues
171 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 120
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,537
RANK
5,010
4 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies