Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Analysis: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach

Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 54, pp. 48-58, 2003

11 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2008 Last revised: 28 Nov 2018

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Sungsoo Kim

Rutgers Business School - Camden; University of Minnesota - Minneapolis

Raymond L. Raab

University of Minnesota, Duluth - Labovitz School of Business and Economics (LSBE)

Date Written: July 21, 2008

Abstract

Ratio analysis is a commonly used analytical tool for verifying the performance of a firm. While ratios are easy to compute, which in part explains their wide appeal, their interpretation is problematic when two or more ratios provide conflicting signals. Indeed, ratio analysis is often criticized on the grounds of subjectivity, that is the analysts must pick and choose ratios in order to asses the overall performance of a firm.

In this paper, we demonstrate that Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) can augment the traditional ratio analysis. DEA can provide a consistent and reliable measure of the managerial or operational efficiency of the firm. We test the null hypothesis that there is no relationship between DEA and traditional accounting ratios as a measure of performance of a firm. Our results reject the null hypothesis indicating that DEA can provide information to analysts that is additional to that provided by the traditional ratio analysis. We illustrate the application of DEA to the oil and gas industry to demonstrate how financial analysts can employ DEA as a complement to ratio analysis.

This paper was categorized as a theoretical paper by the editors of the Journal of the Operational Research Society. The algorithms used in the paper provided a basis for Invention Disclosure with the University of Minnesota Patent Office.

Keywords: Financial Statement Analysis, Finance, Ratio Analysis, Fundamental Analysis, Coase Theory of the Firm, Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA), Financial Institutions, Capital Markets, Market Efficiency, Risk Management, Forensic Accounting, Econometrics, Operations Research

JEL Classification: C44, C61, C67, D57,G10,G14, G15, G20, G30, G18, G30, G38, M40, M41, M49, N20, P16

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H. and Kim, Sungsoo and Raab, Raymond L., Financial Statement Analysis: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach (July 21, 2008). Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 54, pp. 48-58, 2003 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1167557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,529
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,144
RANK
7,516
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies