Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Red Flags

THE BLACKWELL ENCYCLOPEDIC DICTIONARY OF ACCOUNTING, A. Rashad Abdel-Khalik, ed., pp. 245-247, Blackwell Publishers Limited, 1997

5 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2008 Last revised: 21 Feb 2018

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 24, 2008

Abstract

This paper predates the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 704: Study of Enforcement Actions) by five years. Red flags in accounting refer to a set of diagnostic checks to determine the riskiness of a client or a registrant filing financial statements with the SEC. The importance of red flags in auditing has been highlighted by the US National Commission on Fraudulent Financial Reporting and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. A report published by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants noted, "In 36 percent of the cases against independent public accountants by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the auditor failed to recognize or pursue with sufficient skepticism certain warning signs or 'red flags' that existed at the time the audit was conducted" (AICPA 1987, p.113). Although individual auditing firms have developed their own sets of proprietary red flags, there are at least two authoritative sources of red flags. The AICPA Statement of Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 53 (1988) is (was) the most recent pronouncement on the issue. The US SEC through its Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs) also has suggested red flags it considers in determining the targets of its enforcement actions.

Box 1 (please see the full text) summarizes the red flags mentioned explicitly in SAS 53. Even the subset of 33 red flags mentioned in SAS 53 imposes severe constraints on information processing limits of a decision maker. SAS 53 is also reticent as to the weights to be assigned to the individual risk factors in an audit judgment.

Research addressing unresolved issues related to red flags fall into two categories: archival survey analysis and behavioral modeling. Archival survey analysis checks the correspondence between red flags mentioned in the authoritative sources against the case data available either from the auditors' archives or those of the SEC. Research results show correspondence between the SAS 53 red flags and those mentioned in AAERs and indicate that dominated decisions, weak internal control, dishonest management, and personality anomalies are primary predictors of management frauds and defalcations. However, research results also show that the use of red flags may not be efficacious as a decision aid.

Red flags literature is an aggregation of potentially important but largely untested predictors of client (registrant) risks. Although individual auditing firms and the SEC have been using the subsets of these red flags for their own decision making purposes, published scientific evidence regarding their efficacy is scarce. Much of the current evidence is based on case-based reasoning. While the internal validity of case-based reasoning is not an issue, the generalizability of case based red flags remains an empirical question. Users of red flags are appropriately justified in being cautious until empirical evidence regarding their efficacy is widely documented. Finally, the increase in computerized fraud in financial reporting brings an added dimension of complexity to raise doubts about the efficacy of traditional red flags. While the issue of deception in an evolutionary information processing context is still in its infancy, it is plausible that revolutionary changes in information processing technology will heighten the obsolescence of traditional accounting red flags.

Keywords: Red flags, Management fraud, Audit, Assurance, AICPA, SAS#53, SEC, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAER), Regulation

JEL Classification: G1, G2, G3, G10, G30, G38, K2, L51, M4, M40, M41, M49, N20, P16

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H., Accounting Red Flags (July 24, 2008). THE BLACKWELL ENCYCLOPEDIC DICTIONARY OF ACCOUNTING, A. Rashad Abdel-Khalik, ed., pp. 245-247, Blackwell Publishers Limited, 1997, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1175607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
877
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,050
RANK
52,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies