Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach

Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, Vol. 2, pp.17-31, 2005

34 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2008 Last revised: 4 Jan 2019

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Sungsoo Kim

Rutgers Business School - Camden; University of Minnesota - Minneapolis

Raymond L. Raab

University of Minnesota, Duluth - Labovitz School of Business and Economics (LSBE)

Date Written: August 1, 2003

Abstract

We demonstrate the usefulness of Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) as an analytical procedure for auditors, especially in the planning stage of the audit, to determine the extent of audit and to assess the preliminary risk level of the client. DEA based analytical procedures can provide consistent and reliable red flags and benchmarks for auditors to compare a client to other firms in the same industry. We provide an illustrative use of DEA as an analytical procedure for auditing a client in the oil and gas industry.

Keywords: Risk, Analytical Procedures, Benchmarks, Red Flags, Audit, DEA, Political Economy

JEL Classification: C44, C61, C67, D57, G1, G2, G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H. and Kim, Sungsoo and Raab, Raymond L., ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach (August 1, 2003). Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, Vol. 2, pp.17-31, 2005 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1179302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Aicpa
Audit and Accounting Guide: Audits of Entities with Oil and Gas Producing Activities Posted: 1998
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standards #56, Analytical Procedures Posted: 1988
Crossref
V Anderson , W W Cooper , D Lockhart
DEA Evaluation of Performance Audits
Internal Auditing , volume 10 , p. 13 - 22 Posted: 1994
A R Arens , M Elder , Beasley
Auditing: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,054
RANK
140,484
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An Income Efficiency Model Approach to the Economic Consequences of the OSHA Cotton Dust Regulations

By Ehsan H. Feroz, Raymond L. Raab, ...

Performance Measurement for Accountability in Corporate Governance: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach

By Ehsan H. Feroz, Sanjay Goel, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies