Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Occurrence of Fibonacci Numbers in Time Series of Financial Accounting Ratios: Anomalies or Indicators of Firm Survival, Bankruptcy and Fraud? An Exploratory Study

Managerial Finance, Vol. 26, No. 11, pp. 5-20, 2000

16 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2008 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Amin H. Amershi

McMaster University

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Date Written: 2000

Abstract

Although there have been conjectures about possible occurrences of Fibonacci numbers and golden means and ratios in financial statements (Feroz 1992), it is intriguing as to why managers should be reporting these rather stylized series of numbers the occurrences of which have hitherto been documented mostly in the biological sciences (Davis 1989). One possible explanation is that these numbers are merely random occurrences and are not part of any systematic financial reporting patterns. Still other conjectures are that these numbers are generated by a process of skillful manipulation of accounting rules which has been documented in empirical accounting literature.

The purpose of this study is to empirically verify the null hypothesis that the occurrence of Fibonacci numbers, golden ratios and means in financial ratios, is merely a random occurrence without any statistical significance. We constructed two samples: a random sample of 200 companies, and another sample of 200 companies that have survived 20 years or more. We find that (1) there is an infinity of distributions under which the null hypothesis cannot be rejected for either sample, and (2) there is an infinity of distributions under which the null hypothesis cannot be rejected for the sample of 200 surviving companies but can be rejected for the random sample. The latter result is particularly important because it shows that it is possible to discriminate between surviving companies and randomly selected companies based on golden mean in total debt/total invested capital ratio.

Keywords: Fibonacci Numbers, Golden Ratio, Golden Mean, Time Series, Debt to Toal Invested Capital Ratio, Capital structure, Firm survival, Bankruptcy, Fraud, Number theory, Political Economy

JEL Classification: C6, G1, G2, G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Amershi, Amin H. and Feroz, Ehsan H., The Occurrence of Fibonacci Numbers in Time Series of Financial Accounting Ratios: Anomalies or Indicators of Firm Survival, Bankruptcy and Fraud? An Exploratory Study (2000). Managerial Finance, Vol. 26, No. 11, pp. 5-20, 2000 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1180582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,407
RANK
123,063
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies