Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Self-Organizing Fuzzy and MLP Approaches to Detecting Fraudulent Financial Reporting

SOFT COMPUTING IN FINANCIAL ENGINEERING, R.A. Riberio, H.J. Zimmerman, R.R. Yager, & J. Kacpryzk, eds., New York, 1999

6 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2008 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Taek M. Kwon

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Electrical and Computer Engineering

Date Written: August 10, 2008

Abstract

This paper predates the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 704: Study of Enforcement Actions) by three years. The purpose of this study is to compare a class of neural networks and fuzzy controller approaches, more specifically, a multi-layered perceptron (MLP) and a self-organizing fuzzy approach, in determining the efficacy of selected Statement of Auditing Standard No. 53 red flags in predicting the targets of the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) investigations. The motivation for studying these two approaches is provided in part by our earlier work with conventional tools such as logit which generally leads to inferior prediction accuracy for such classification problems.

In direct comparison of the performance on the present SEC investigation problem, the MLP network outperformed both logit and fuzzy approaches. We believe that the performance of the fuzzy approach can be significantly improved if the center vectors are fine tuned using some adaptive algorithms. Our empirical results demonstrate that both MLP and fuzzy approaches can be powerful tools, especially in the pattern classification or detection problems, such as those related to fraudulent financial reporting.

Keywords: Fraudulent financial reporting, SEC, GAAP, SAS, Red flags, Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, Neural Networks, Fuzzy controller, Financial engineering, Soft Computing, Political Economy

JEL Classification: C45, D57, G18, G38, K22, L81, M41

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H. and Kwon, Taek M., Self-Organizing Fuzzy and MLP Approaches to Detecting Fraudulent Financial Reporting (August 10, 2008). SOFT COMPUTING IN FINANCIAL ENGINEERING, R.A. Riberio, H.J. Zimmerman, R.R. Yager, & J. Kacpryzk, eds., New York, 1999, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1215302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,853
RANK
322,813
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies