Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Incremental Benefits of a Forensic Accounting Course on Skepticism and Fraud-Related Judgments

36 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2008

Tina Carpenter

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Cindy Durtschi

DePaul University - School of Accountancy and MIS

Lisa Milici Gaynor

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 22, 2008

Abstract

This study examines the extent to which providing a course that emphasizes forensic accounting influences students skepticism and fraud-related judgments. We follow a cohort of students (trained students) who have enrolled in a forensic accounting course and examine their fraud judgments at various points in time - the first day of instruction, the last day of instruction, and seven months later. We compare these fraud judgments to a control group of students who have completed a typical audit sequence (untrained students) and to a panel of fraud experts. We find that when confronted with a non-conforming account, trained students provide significantly higher initial risk assessments post-training 1) than they did pre-training and 2) than did the untrained students. This suggests that the specialized course may lead to increased skepticism. We also find, in general, that post-training students assigned somewhat higher relevancy ratings to fraud risk factors than did a panel of experts; while the untrained students ascribed significantly less relevance than the experts did to these same facts. In addition, after exposure to fraud risk factors, trained students provided higher revised risk assessments post-training than they did pre-training. Finally, we find that seven months after the course, the trained students' performance is sustained, suggesting that the effects produced by taking a fraud-specific forensic accounting course persist.

Keywords: Risk Assessment, Fraud, Training, Skepticism

JEL Classification: M49, C91, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Carpenter, Tina and Durtschi, Cindy and Gaynor, Lisa Milici, The Incremental Benefits of a Forensic Accounting Course on Skepticism and Fraud-Related Judgments (July 22, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1223662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1223662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No Posted: 2002-10-15
_______
AICPA Practice Aid Series, Fraud Detection in a GAAS Audit: SAS No. 99 Implementation Guide Posted: 2003
S Asare , A Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research Summer , issue 21 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H S Barrows , R M Tamblyn
Problem-based Learning Posted: 1980
Load more
6 Citations
Samuel F. Johnson-Rokosu
An Empirical Evaluation of Forensic Accounting Education in Nigeria Tertiary Institutions
117 Pages · Posted: 22 Sep 2015 · Last revised: 26 Nov 2016 · Downloads: 553
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Madan Lal Bhasin
Survey of Appropriate Skills Required by Forensic Accountants: Empirical Evidence from a Developing Economy
International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies, 1 (2) (2013) 53-73 · 21 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2015 · Downloads: 359
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tracie McDonald Majors , Sarah E. Bonner
Does a Completion Goal Impede Auditors’ Identification of Fraud Risk? The Benefit of a Refuse to Accept Goal and Influence of Professional Identity
USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper · 45 Pages · Posted: 1 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 169
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Joseph F. Brazel , Justin Leiby , Tammie Rech Schaefer
Who Rewards Appropriate Levels of Professional Skepticism?
39 Pages · Posted: 26 Jun 2023 · Last revised: 23 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 185
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,360
RANK
34,089
6 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Audit Team Brainstorming, Fraud Risk Identification, and Fraud Risk Assessment: Implications of Sas No. 99

By Tina Carpenter

Implications of Regulatory Prescriptions & Audit Standards on the Evolution of Forensic Accounting in the Audit Process

By James A. Digabriele

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies