Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Audit Evidence in a Strategic Audit

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 58-67, January-February 2009

Posted: 22 Aug 2008 Last revised: 28 Dec 2008

Yasuhiro Ohta

Keio University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 22, 2008

Abstract

This study examines how audit risk (the probability of false acceptance) and its components change when the auditor obtains audit evidence in an acceptance-sampling model. Inherent risk and audit risk increase with audit evidence if the auditee has a sufficiently strong incentive for committing fraud. Detection risk always increases when audit evidence is introduced. If the auditor has a sufficiently strong incentive for avoiding false rejection, audit risk also increases with audit evidence. The analysis indicates that requiring auditors to obtain information is not effective in preventing material misstatements in at least some instances.

Keywords: Strategic audits, Audit risk, Audit evidence, Acceptance sampling

JEL Classification: C72, D81, D82, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ohta, Yasuhiro, The Role of Audit Evidence in a Strategic Audit (August 22, 2008). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 58-67, January-February 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1247082
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies