Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Policies and Entrepreneurship: Relative Tax Rates and Health Insurance Deductibility

11 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2008

Tami Gurley-Calvez

University of Kansas Medical Center

Date Written: August 1, 2005

Abstract

This project investigates the effects of taxes on entrepreneurship activities in the United States over a twelve-year period, 1979-1990. The study details two prior theoretical models focusing on two aspects of the tax system: (1) the effects of tax policies on the relative risk of the entrepreneurial sector through loss and offsets, and (2) the opportunities for, and benefits of, evasion.

Critiquing the theoretical ambiguity of such theoretical models, a model is developed that combines the relative risk framework with evasion opportunities. Using a random effects model, the tax rates the filer would face both as a wage and salary worker and as an entrepreneur are predicted. The data spans from 1979 to 1990, from more than 200,000 tax returns. Employing a duration model and a discrete choice model, the following findings are made: (1) tax rates have important effects on entrepreneurial entry and survival; and (2) decreases in expected marginal tax rates in the wage sector lower the probability of entrepreneurial entry, diminish the survival of existing entrepreneurs, and increase the probability of entrepreneurial exit.

The findings are consistent with the predictions of the chosen theoretical model. It is also indicated that entrepreneurs are sensitive to multiple facets of the tax system, including relative tax rates and tax incentives targeted at health insurance. Findings also indicate that tax policy is an effective tool for influencing levels of entrepreneurship in the economy.

Keywords: Taxes, Risk management, Startups, Health insurance, Tax policies, Firm survival

Suggested Citation:

Gurley-Calvez, Tami, Tax Policies and Entrepreneurship: Relative Tax Rates and Health Insurance Deductibility (August 1, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1262288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1262288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,411
RANK
541,838
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies