Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Overconfidence and the Slippery Slope to Financial Misreporting

AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 08-25

47 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008 Last revised: 7 May 2011

Catherine M. Schrand

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Sarah L. C. Zechman

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2011

Abstract

A detailed analysis of firms subject to SEC Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs) in the 1990s and 2000s suggests that approximately one-quarter are the result of an act that is consistent with legal standards of intent. In the remaining three quarters, the initial misstatement – generally an overstatement – reflects an optimistic bias that is not necessarily intentional. Because of the bias, in subsequent periods these firms are more likely to be in a position in which they are compelled to manage earnings in growing amounts. Overconfidence is a trait that is associated with optimistic bias. We find results consistent with overconfident executives, who are more likely to exhibit an optimistic bias, being more likely to initially overstate earnings which starts them on the path to growing intentional misstatements.

Keywords: executive overconfidence, fraud, earnings mangement, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G34, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schrand, Catherine M. and Zechman, Sarah L. C., Executive Overconfidence and the Slippery Slope to Financial Misreporting (May 1, 2011). AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 08-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1265631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1265631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to sox-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B M Barber , T Odean
Boys will be boys: Gender, overconfidence, and common stock investment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 261 - 292 Posted: 2001-02
Crossref
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,780
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,564
RANK
6,077
32 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

CEO Overconfidence and Corporate Investment

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

CEO Overconfidence and Corporate Investment

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

Who Makes Acquisitions? CEO Overconfidence and the Market's Reaction

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies