Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did Auditors Need Reforming? The Need for SOX

27 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2008

Antti Fredriksson

University of Turku - Department of Economics

Frederick W. Lindahl

George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: September 2008

Abstract

This paper considers whether the necessity of increased government regulation that was the basis for the American Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) can be supported by economic analysis. Although there are no reported data on the costs and benefits of the regulation, economic theory is applied to evaluate whether the objective of improved financial reporting was cost-effective.

We also study the effects of SOX in Finland. This gives us a richer source of information because, unlike America, in Finland there are only a few firms required to comply with SOX, by virtue of their American listing. Other firms, large and small, freely choose whether to adopt aspects of SOX. Likewise, the Finnish stock exchange regulators were free to adopt provisions they felt were beneficial, and ignore others.

We conclude that improvements to the audit process following financial scandals would have been achieved more efficiently through market forces rather than legislative intervention.

Keywords: audit, auditor, regulation, Sarbanes-Oxley Act

JEL Classification: G38, G34, K22, M41, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fredriksson, Antti and Lindahl, Frederick W., Did Auditors Need Reforming? The Need for SOX (September 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1275974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
White Paper: AICPA Standards for Performing and Reporting on Peer Reviews
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 2004
Gary S Becker
Human Capital Posted: 1975
George J Benston , Michael Bromwich , Alfred Wagenhofer
Principles-Versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards: The FASB's Standard Setting Strategy
Abacus , volume 42 , p. 165 - 188 Posted: 2006
Crossref
John L Carey
The Rise of the Accounting Profession Posted: 1969
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,994
RANK
278,438
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economic Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

By Ivy Zhang

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies