Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association Between Financial Reporting Risk and Audit Fees Before and After the Historic Events Surrounding SOX

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2008 Last revised: 1 Nov 2009

Shannon L. Charles

Brigham Young University

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 1, 2008

Abstract

This study investigates whether the association between financial reporting risk and audit fees changed during 2000-2003: a time period marked by momentous and historic events for auditors. We find a positive statistically and economically significant relationship between financial reporting risk and audit fees paid to Big 4 auditors. More importantly, we predict and find that the relation between financial reporting risk and audit fees strengthened significantly in 2002 and 2003, consistent with a shift in the way auditors priced risk, likely in response to the events surrounding the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Finally, we provide evidence that a commercially developed, comprehensive risk measure effectively proxies for an element of risk beyond what has traditionally been captured by various risk measures in audit fee models: namely, the risk that financial statements have been intentionally misstated. We believe this risk measure will be of interest to future researchers.

Keywords: audit fees, financial reporting risk, audit risk, Sarbanes-Oxley

JEL Classification: M49, M41, M43, G38

Suggested Citation:

Charles, Shannon L. and Glover, Steven M. and Sharp, Nathan Y., The Association Between Financial Reporting Risk and Audit Fees Before and After the Historic Events Surrounding SOX (September 1, 2008). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003-09
Crossref
AU Section 312, Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit Posted: 2007
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor indepen dence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Asthana , J Krishnan
Factors Associated with Early Adoption of the SEC's Revised Auditor Fee Disclosure Rules. Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory Posted: 2006-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
780
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,230
RANK
73,532
3 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies