Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002: Implications for Compensation Contracts and Managerial Risk-Taking

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27546

44 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Daniel A. Cohen

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Aiyesha Dey

Harvard Business School

Thomas Z. Lys

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2004

Abstract

The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) introduced several governance reforms thatconsiderably increased the total risk exposure of CEOs. We examine the effects of these regulatory changes on compensation contracts of CEOs and their effect on risk taking subsequent to SOX. We find that while overall compensation did not change, salary and bonus compensation increased and option compensation decreased following the passageof SOX. The sensitivity of CEO s wealth to changes in shareholder wealth also decreasedafter SOX. These results indicate that the pay for performance sensitivity of CEOcompensation has declined following SOX. Our results indicate that these changesreduced investments in research and development, and capital expenditures. We also document that the above changes in CEOs pay for performance sensitivities and theirrisky investments following SOX are associated with a reduction in stock returnvolatility. However, we do not find any evidence indicating that these changes areassociated with lower future operating performance.

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Daniel A. and Dey, Aiyesha and Lys, Thomas Z., The Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002: Implications for Compensation Contracts and Managerial Risk-Taking (July 2004). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27546, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
L Bebchuk , J Fried
Pay Without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation Posted: 2004
D A Bens , V Nagar , M H F Wong
Real Investment Implications of Employee Stock Option Exercises
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 359 - 393 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P G Berger , F Li , M H F Wong
The Impact of Sarbanes-Oxley on Crosslisted Companies. Working paper Posted: 2006
P G Berger , E Ofek , D L Yermack
Managerial Entrenchment and Capital Structure Decisions
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 1411 - 1438 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,206
RANK
6,641
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economic Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

By Ivy Zhang

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies