Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Control and Responsibility of Credit Rating Agencies in the United States

American Journal of Comparative Law, Vol. 54, 2006

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 119

21 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Arthur R. Pinto

Brooklyn Law School (Emeritus)

Date Written: October 7, 2008

Abstract

The article was a report prepared on credit rating agencies as the US National Report for XVIIth Congress of the International Academy of Comparative Law. Credit rating agencies are considered one of the outside "gatekeepers" who act as reputational intermediaries by evaluating issuers in order to protect outside investors. Their failure to reflect the financial condition of troubled issuers like Enron and Worldcom raised issues about their roles and regulation of these agencies in the United States. The article discusses those issues. The paper was published prior to the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006.

Keywords: Credit Rating Agency, gatekeepers, NRSRO, Securities and Exchange Commission

Suggested Citation:

Pinto, Arthur R., Control and Responsibility of Credit Rating Agencies in the United States (October 7, 2008). American Journal of Comparative Law, Vol. 54, 2006, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 119, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,316
RANK
40,982
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies