Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trends in Earnings Management and Informativeness of Earnings Announcements in the Pre- and Post-Sarbanes Oxley Periods

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27545

44 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Daniel A. Cohen

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Aiyesha Dey

Harvard Business School

Thomas Z. Lys

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2005

Abstract

We document that firms management of accounting earnings increased steadily from1987 until the passage of the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX), with a significant increaseduring the period prior to SOX, followed by a significant decline after passage of SOX.However, the increase in earnings management preceding SOX was primarily in poorlyperforming industries. We also show that the informativeness of earnings increasedsteadily over time, and there was no significant change in earnings informativeness following the passage of SOX. Further, we find that earnings management increased the absolute informativeness of earnings, but reduced the informativeness for a given earnings surprise, as well as reduced the abnormal return for a given amount of earnings surprise. Finally, the evidence supports the hypothesis that the opportunistic behavior of managers, primarily related to the fraction of compensation derived from options, was significantly associated with earnings management in the period preceding SOX.

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Daniel A. and Dey, Aiyesha and Lys, Thomas Z., Trends in Earnings Management and Informativeness of Earnings Announcements in the Pre- and Post-Sarbanes Oxley Periods (February 2005). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27545, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Defond , K R Subramanyam
Auditor Changes and Discretionary Accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 35 - 67 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Ilia D. Dichev , Douglas J. Skinner
Large-Sample Evidence on the Debt Covenant Hypothesis
Pages: 54 Posted: 3 Jul 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J A Elliott , J D Hanna
Repeated Accounting Write-Offs and the Information Content of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 135 - 155 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Forbes
The Corporate Scandal Sheet Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,622
RANK
3,225
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies