Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real and Accrual-Based Earnings Management in the Pre- and Post-Sarbanes Oxley Periods

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27548

52 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Daniel A. Cohen

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Aiyesha Dey

Harvard Business School

Thomas Z. Lys

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2004

Abstract

We document that accrual-based earnings management increased steadily from 1987 untilthe passage of the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) in 2002, followed by a significant declineafter the passage of SOX. Conversely, the level of real earnings management activitiesdeclined prior to SOX and increased significantly after the passage of SOX, suggesting that firms switched from accrual-based to real earnings management methods after the passage of SOX. We also find evidence that the accrual-based earnings management activities were particularly high in the period immediately preceding SOX. Consistent with these results, we find that firms that just achieved important earnings benchmarks used less accruals and more real earnings management after SOX when compared to similar firms before SOX. Finally, our analysis provides evidence that the increases in accrual-based earnings management in the period preceding SOX were concurrent withincreases in the fraction of equity based compensation.

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Daniel A. and Dey, Aiyesha and Lys, Thomas Z., Real and Accrual-Based Earnings Management in the Pre- and Post-Sarbanes Oxley Periods (January 2004). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27548, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M Erickson , M Hanlon , E L Maydew
Is There a Link between Executive Equity Incentives and Accounting Fraud
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 113 - 144 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Fuller , C Michael , Jensen
Just say no to Wall Street
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 14 , p. 41 - 46 Posted: 2002
Forbes
The Corporate Scandal Sheet Posted: 2002
J R Graham , C R Harvey , S Rajgopal
The Economic Implications of Corporate Financial Reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 3 - 73 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
730
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,937
RANK
1,653
115 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies