Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statements Insurance

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27449

40 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008 Last revised: 2 Dec 2008

Alex Dontoh

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Joshua Ronen

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Bharat Sarath

Rutgers University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 28, 2008

Abstract

The fact that auditors are paid by the companies they audit creates an inherent conflict of interest with investors who rely on the audit report in their capital allocation decisions. We analyze how the provision of financial statement insurance could eliminate this conflict of interest and properly aligns the incentives of auditors with those of shareholders. We first show that when the benefits to obtaining funding are sufficiently large, the existing legal and regulatory regime governing financial reporting (and auditing) results in low quality financial statements. Consequently, the cash flows from firms are improperly identified and firms which yield a low rate of return (low fundamental value) are over-funded relative to firms characterized by a high rate of return (high fundamental value). We present a mechanism whereby companies would purchase financial statement insurance that provides coverage to investors against losses suffered as a result of misrepresentation in financial reports. The insurance coverage that the companies are able to obtain is publicized, as are the premiums paid for that coverage. The insurers would appoint and pay the auditors who attest to the accuracy of the financial statements of the prospective insurance clients. Firms announcing higher limits of coverage and smaller premiums would distinguish themselves in the eyes of the investors as companies with higher quality financial statements. In contrast, those with smaller or no coverage or higher premiums will reveal themselves as those with lower quality financial statements. Every company will be eager to get higher coverage and pay smaller premiums lest it be identified as the latter. A sort of Gresham's law would be set in operation, resulting in a flight to quality. As a result, when financial statement insurance is available, capital is generally provided to the most efficient firms.

Keywords: Financial statements, insurance, auditor liability, 1934 Securities Act

Suggested Citation:

Dontoh, Alex and Ronen, Joshua and Sarath, Bharat Sarrukai, Financial Statements Insurance (November 28, 2008). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27449, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
George P Baker , C Michael , Kevin J Jensen , Murphy
Compensation and Incentives: Practice vs. Theory
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 616 Posted: 1988-07
Crossref
Henry N Butler , Larry E Ribstein
The Sarbanes-Oxley Debacle Posted: 2006
Lawrence A Cunningham
A Model Financial Statement Insurance Act
Connecticut Insurance Law Journal , volume 11 , p. 69 - 106 Posted: 2004
Lawrence A Cunningham
Choosing Gatekeepers: The Financial Statement Insurance Alternative to Auditor Liability
UCLA Law Review , volume 52 , p. 413 - 475 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,983
RANK
24,893
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Choosing Gatekeepers: The Financial Statement Insurance Alternative to Auditor Liability

By Lawrence A. Cunningham

Courts and the Tort-Contract Boundary in Product Liability

By Paul H. Rubin

Financial Statements Insurance

By Alex Dontoh, Joshua Ronen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies