Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Financial Expertise, Competing Corporate Governance Mechanisms, and Earnings Management

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27455

55 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Carl W. Hollingsworth

Clemson University

April Klein

New York University (NYU); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2006

Abstract

A prime objective of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and recent changes to stock exchange listing standards is to improve the quality of financial reporting. We examine the associations between audit committee financial expertise and alternate corporate governance mechanisms and earnings management. We find that both accounting and certain types of non-accounting financial expertise reduce earnings management for firms with weak alternate corporate governance mechanisms, but that independent audit committee members with financial expertise are most effective in mitigating earnings management. Importantly we find that alternate corporate governance mechanisms are an effective substitute for audit committee financial expertise in constraining earnings management. Finally, we find either no association or a positive association between financial expertise and real earnings management. Our results suggest that alternate governance approaches are equally effective in improving the quality of financial reporting, and that firms should have the flexibility to design the particular set of governance mechanisms that best fit their unique situations.

Keywords: earnings management, real earnings management, corporate governance, Sarbanes-Oxley

Suggested Citation:

Carcello, Joseph V. and Hollingsworth, Carl W. and Klein, April, Audit Committee Financial Expertise, Competing Corporate Governance Mechanisms, and Earnings Management (February 2006). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27455, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
W R Baber , P M Fairfield , J M Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: the case of research and development
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,398
RANK
1,909
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies