Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Brandeis' Policeman: Results from a Laboratory Experiment on How to Prevent Corporate Fraud

Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, Vol. 5, No. 2, July 2008

Loyola-LA Legal Studies Paper No. 2009-24

37 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2008 Last revised: 22 Jul 2009

Michael D. Guttentag

Loyola Law School Los Angeles

Christine Porath

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; Georgetown University - Department of Management

Samuel N. Fraidin

Gregory P. Joseph Law Offices LLC

Date Written: June 1, 2008

Abstract

We use a laboratory experiment to study how to prevent corporate fraud. Our experiment is the first to replicate the salient features of corporate fraud in a controlled setting. We find that requiring additional disclosures significantly reduces fraud. This finding runs counter to implications from previous research, but that research does not include many of the defining aspects of corporate fraud. Our results support the federal government's continued reliance on disclosure as a way to reduce fraud, a reliance that dates back to Louis Brandeis' observation that publicity is justly commended as a remedy for social and industrial diseases. Sunlight is said to be the best of disinfectants; electric light the most efficient policeman.

Keywords: Fraud, Disclosure, Experimental Economics, Cooperative Games, Group Behavior

JEL Classification: C71, C92, D21, D23, D71, K14, K22

Suggested Citation:

Guttentag, Michael D. and Porath, Christine and Fraidin, Samuel N., Brandeis' Policeman: Results from a Laboratory Experiment on How to Prevent Corporate Fraud (June 1, 2008). Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, Vol. 5, No. 2, July 2008, Loyola-LA Legal Studies Paper No. 2009-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1281089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Larry Edward Ribstein
Perils of Criminalizing Agency Costs
U Illinois Law & Economics Research Paper No. LE06-021 Pages: 11 Posted: 25 Jul 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Id
E G See , F Harold , Russell
Posted: 1977
Crossref
John M Darley
The Cognitive and Social Psychology of Contagious Organizational Corruption, 70 Brook
L. Rev , volume 1177 , p. 1180 - 81 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
398
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,415
RANK
169,614
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Loyola Law School Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economic Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

By Ivy Zhang

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies