Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

NYU Working Paper No. CLB-06-015

41 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2008

Simi Kedia

Rutgers Business School

Thomas Philippon

New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 2006

Abstract

We argue that earnings management and fraudulent accounting have important eco-nomic consequences. In a model where the costs of earnings management are endoge-nous, we show that in equilibrium, low productivity firms hire and invest too muchin order to pool with high productivity firms. This behavior distorts the allocation of economic resources in the economy. We test the predictions of the model using firm-level data. We show that during periods of suspicious accounting, firms hire and investexcessively, while managers exercise options. When the misreporting is detected, firmsshed labor and capital and productivity improves. Our firm-level results hold both be-fore and after the market crash of 2000. In the aggregate, our model provides a novelexplanation for periods of jobless and investment-less growth.

Suggested Citation:

Kedia, Simi and Philippon, Thomas, The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting (September 2006). NYU Working Paper No. CLB-06-015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1291603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Mark H. Lang , Mark G. Maffett , Edward Owens
Earnings Comovement and Accounting Comparability: The Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption
Simon School Working Paper No. FR 11-03 · 55 Pages · Posted: 15 Sep 2010 · Last revised: 15 Aug 2016 · Downloads: 3,591
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,867
RANK
37,118
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Semi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies