Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Irregularities and Executive Turnover in Founder-Managed Firms

41 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2008

Andrew J. Leone

Northwestern University

Michelle Liu

CUNY Hunter College

Date Written: November 16, 2008

Abstract

This study tests the hypothesis that founder CEOs are less likely to be fired than non-founder CEOs when accounting irregularities are disclosed. We also examine whether CFOs are more likely to shoulder the blame when the CEO is a founder. Using a sample of ninety newly public firms with accounting irregularities, and a control sample of similar newly public firms, we document that the probability of CEO (CFO) turnover in the wake of an accounting irregularity is lower (higher) when the firm's CEO is also a founder. The difference in CEO turnover rates is dramatic, with non-founder CEOs turning over at a rate of 51% compared to only 26% for founder CEOs. Our overall findings are consistent with the notion that founder CEOs are entrenched.

Keywords: Entrenchment, Turnover, Founders, Restatements, IPO

JEL Classification: G32, G14

Suggested Citation:

Leone, Andrew J. and Liu, Michelle, Accounting Irregularities and Executive Turnover in Founder-Managed Firms (November 16, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1302420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1302420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and Their Impact on Corporate Performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1404 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management Turnover and Governance Changes Following the Revelation of Fraud
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M L Arthaud-Day , S T Certo , C M Dalton , D R Dalton
A Changing of the Guard: Executive and Director Turnover Following Corporate Financial Restatements Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
445
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,140
RANK
149,037
8 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies