Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IT Control Weakness and Company Financial Health

35 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2008 Last revised: 5 Aug 2012

Manju Ahuja

University of Louisville - Department of Computer Information Systems

Randy Kuhn

University of South Florida - School of Accountancy

John M. Mueller

St. Edwards University; California State University, Fresno

Date Written: June 2012

Abstract

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) brought the notion of information technology (IT) governance to the forefront of business executives and the investing community. Per Section 404 of the Act, SEC registrants and their auditors must assess and report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, including IT controls. However, IT governance has been a mystery to the key decision makers of many companies. The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship of weaknesses in IT related internal controls to companies' overall financial performance and health. The study examines four accounting measures: liquidity, solvency, profitability, and market value. During the four year period of 2004-2007 the authors identified companies that reported at least one material IT weakness and matched them with a similar set of companies with no reported material weaknesses. Additionally, for a subset of the companies in which a good match could be identified, a second data set was developed for comparison of companies reporting only material non-IT weaknesses. As expected, companies reporting IT weaknesses experienced less of an ability to pay short-term and long-term debts, earned lower profits, and possessed lower market value than companies with no weaknesses. Companies reporting IT weaknesses experienced worse financial performance and health than companies with non-IT weaknesses.

Keywords: Internal control, material weakness, SOX 404, IT governance, firm health, firm performance

JEL Classification: G34, M41, G33, K22

Suggested Citation:

Ahuja, Manju and Kuhn, Randy and Mueller, John M., IT Control Weakness and Company Financial Health (June 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1304125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1304125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S Ravindran
Value Implications of Investments in Information Technology
Management Science , volume 52 , issue 9 , p. 1359 - 1376 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A S Bharadwaj
A Resource-based Perspective on Information Technology Capability and Firm Performance: An Empirical Investigation
MIS Quarterly , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 196 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Canada , J R Kuhn , S G Sutton
The Pervasive Nature of IT Controls: An Examination of Material Weaknesses in IT Controls and Audit Fees
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 106 - 119 Posted: 2009
J Cao , T Calderon , C Akhilesh , Wang , L
Analyzing late SEC filings for differential impacts of IS and accounting issues
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 189 - 207 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
John R. Kuhn , Bonnie Morris
IT internal control weaknesses and the market value of firms
Journal of Enterprise Information Management , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 964 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,822
RANK
113,544
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Determinants of Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Accruals Quality and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Internal Control Weakness and Cost of Equity: Evidence from Sox Section 404 Disclosures

By Maria Ogneva, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies