Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preventing Madoff-Style Ponzi Enabled by Jewish Reputation, Incompetent Regulators and Auditors

8 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2008 Last revised: 27 Jan 2009

Hrishikesh D. Vinod

Fordham University - Department of Economics

Date Written: January 7, 2009

Abstract

The worldwide reach, size ($50B) and durability (since 1960) of Madoff's alleged Ponzi is attributed to the high reputation of Jewish money managers, serious regulatory lapses including incompetence and possible conflicts of interest by FCC, SEC and other regulators and auditors. Madoff seems to have been an equal opportunity thief, who shamelessly made off with funds from close relatives and charities in his scheme. We discuss some ideas on preventing future Ponzi schemes by focusing on corruption, conflicts of interest and fraud. Legally permitted secrecy for the operators of hedge funds is clearly to blame here. We suggest reforms, which will immediately improve transparency in financial transactions and in accounting and audit reports. Since self-regulation does not work in the presence of conflicts of interest, beyond obvious disclosure requirements, divesting of custodial and brokerage operations from financial advisors is an immediately feasible reform. Such separation through divestiture can prevent future Ponzi schemes and minimize broker frauds. I also propose stricter regulation of off-shore entities. We also need to test all managers and regulators at financial institutions for a clear understanding of a few dozen tools and risk assessments in modern quantitative finance.

Keywords: Ponzi, Conflicts of Interest, Regulation of Hedge Funds, Transparency, Divestiture

JEL Classification: G18, G28, G38, M41, M43, M49

Suggested Citation:

Vinod, Hrishikesh D., Preventing Madoff-Style Ponzi Enabled by Jewish Reputation, Incompetent Regulators and Auditors (January 7, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1320069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1320069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Hrishikesh D. Vinod
Winners and Losers in Multiple Failures at Enron and Some Policy Changes
Pages: 11 Posted: 13 Feb 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H D Vinod
Conflict of Interest Economics and Investment Analyst Biases
Brooklyn Law Review , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 88 Posted: 2004
H D Vinod , D Reagle
Preparing for the Worst: Incorporating Downside Risk in Stock Market Investments Posted: 2005
H D Vinod , Sarbanes-Oxley , Coso , Erm , Cobit , Basel Ifrs , Ii , Omb A-123
Fraud and Corruption" Ch. 9 in Manager's Guide to Compliance
ASX , volume 10 Posted: 2008
Load more
4 Citations
Henk Van De Bunt
Walls of secrecy and silence
Criminology & Public Policy , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 435 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Terry A. Sheridan
Bernie Madoff: Predator of His Own Kind
11 Pages · Posted: 12 Dec 2010 · Downloads: 460
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H. D. Vinod
Wiley StatsRef: Statistics Reference Online
Posted: 2014
Crossref
H. D. Vinod
Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences
, p. 1 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,558
RANK
39,450
4 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Winners and Losers in Multiple Failures at Enron and Some Policy Changes

By Hrishikesh D. Vinod

Divest Investment Banking from Financial Institutions

By Hrishikesh D. Vinod

Financial Reform, Innovative Hedging and the Volcker Rule

By Hrishikesh D. Vinod

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies