Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts, Conservatism, and Earnings Management

Journal of Accounting Research 48 (3) June 2010

46 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2009 Last revised: 19 Apr 2017

Scott B. Jackson

University of South Carolina

Xiaotao Kelvin Liu

DMSB - Accounting

Date Written: November 20, 2009

Abstract

We study the interrelation between conservatism and earnings management by examining the allowance for uncollectible accounts and its income statement counterpart, bad debt expense. We find that the allowance is conservative and that it has become more conservative over time. Conservatism may, however, facilitate earnings management. We find that firms manage bad debt expense downward (and even record income-increasing bad debt expense) to meet or beat analysts’ earnings forecasts and that conservatism accentuates the extent to which firms manage bad debt expense. Further, we find that firms manage bad debt expense downward by drawing down previously recorded over-accruals of bad debt expense that have accumulated on the balance sheet. An implication of our study is that tighter limits on the amount by which firms are permitted to understate net assets may reduce their ability to manage earnings.

Keywords: Conservatism, earnings management, the allowance for uncollectible accounts, bad debt expense

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Scott B. and Liu, Xiaotao Kelvin, The Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts, Conservatism, and Earnings Management (November 20, 2009). Journal of Accounting Research 48 (3) June 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1321443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Unamortized Discount and Redemption Premium on Bonds Refunded
Accounting Research Bulletin , issue 2 Posted: 1939
Load more
6 Citations
Kristina M. Rennekamp , Kathy Rupar , Nicholas Seybert
Short-Selling Pressure, Reporting Transparency, and the Use of Real and Accruals Earnings Management to Meet Benchmarks
Robert H. Smith School Research Paper No. RHS 2757150 · 42 Pages · Posted: 2 Apr 2016 · Last revised: 1 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 496
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Debarati Basu , Kaustav Sen
Unconditional Conservatism and Subsequent Real Earnings Management
Pace University Research Paper · 39 Pages · Posted: 11 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard M. Frankel , Bong Hwan Kim , Tao Ma , Xiumin Martin
Bank Monitoring and Financial Reporting Quality: The Case of Accounts-Receivable-Based Loans
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 25 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 197
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Afrizal Afrizal , Wirmie Eka Putra , Yuliusman Yuliusman , Riski Hernando
The Effect of Accounting Conservatism, CSR Disclosure and Tax Avoidance on Earnings Management: Some Evidence From Listed Companies in Indonesia
Afrizal, Putra, W. E., Yuliusman, & Hernando, R. (2020). The Effect of Accounting Conservatism , CSR Disclosure and Tax Avoidance on Earnings Management : Some Evidence From Listed Companies in Indonesia. International Journal of Advanced Science and Technology, 29(04), 1441–1456., · 16 Pages · Posted: 21 May 2020 · Last revised: 23 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 1,297
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,055
RANK
37,978
6 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies