Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption and Local Governance: The Role of Behavioral Accounting for Effective Service Delivery

18 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2009 Last revised: 4 Apr 2010

Lubabah Mansur Kwanbo

Kaduna State University

Date Written: January 1, 2009

Abstract

To achieve Local Governance, the accounting system as the medium of governance must go beyond the traditional way of achieving objectives of governance, i.e. recognizing the behavior of the operators of the system, every inch of the way. The constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria granted local governments the capacity to participate in local governance with the state government. Local governance with time had one major challenge that stood against its achieving objectives of local governance which is service delivery at the grassroots. This paper examines the effect of corruption on Local governance and behavioral accounting as a measure to achieving local governance objectives. This paper employed both primary and secondary sources to gather data. The paper used two techniques chi –square and regression to test for the hypotheses of the study. This paper concludes, Behavioral accounting recognizes the extent to which internal influences (Superior and subordinates) and External influences (Society and employees) in the cause of operating the system of accounting alters organizational objectives. Recognizing this extent, means it can achieve the objectives of local governance. This paper recommends among others, the importance of the medium of governance (Accounting system) to be designed not only to emphasize technical expertise alone, but to emphasize the effectiveness of any accounting system, depends ultimately upon how it influences the behavior of employees in the organization.

Keywords: Corruption, Local Governance, Behavioral Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Kwanbo, Lubabah Mansur, Corruption and Local Governance: The Role of Behavioral Accounting for Effective Service Delivery (January 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1322250 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1322250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
U G Abdullahi
Democracy and Local Administration. Spectrum books ltd Posted: 2006
S W Attah
Local Government Administration, Swan Management consultants Posted: 2000
A Banker , Young , K
Management Accounting 3 rd Edition Posted: 2001
B Clinard , R F Meier
Sociology of Deviant Behavior , volume 13 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,749
RANK
139,743
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Firms and Public Service Provision in Russia

By Pertti Haaparanta, Tuuli Juurikkala, ...

Lobbying at the Local Level: Social Assets in Russian Firms

By Tuuli Juurikkala and Olga Lazareva

Non-Wage Benefits, Costs of Turnover, and Labor Attachment: Evidence from Russian Firms

By Tuuli Juurikkala and Olga Lazareva

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies