Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preventing and Detecting Accounting Irregularities: The Role of Corporate Governance

44 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2009

Nadia Smaili

University of Quebec in Montreal Business School

Réal Labelle

HEC Montréal - Stephen A. Jarislowsky Chair in Governance

Date Written: January 7, 2009

Abstract

This study examines the extent to which corporate governance acts as an efficient means of protecting investors against accounting irregularities, thus contributing to the literatures on governance, on fraudulent financial statements and on the public enforcement of securities laws by market authorities. It does so by empirically testing the prediction that the seriousness or level of non compliance of irregularities detected by market authorities is negatively associated with the quality of governance. For that purpose, a sample of 107 firms identified as reporting issuers in default by the Canadian Securities Administrators and the Ontario Securities Commission is matched with 107 other control firms based on industry, size, stock exchange membership and date of default.

Keywords: Governance, accounting irregularity, financial fraud, restatement, regulation, issuer in default

JEL Classification: G38, G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Smaili, Nadia and Labelle, Réal, Preventing and Detecting Accounting Irregularities: The Role of Corporate Governance (January 7, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324143 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1324143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
ChangeBig4 (5,286)*** (7,057)*** (6,783)*** USA
Crossref
Ownerblock
Unrelated: percentage of independent directors. OwnerBoard: percentage of shares held by directors. BoardSize: board size. BoardComp: number of directors with some knowledge in finance of accounting. BoardExpert: number of financial or accounting experts. BlockinAudit: number of non-affiliated block holders on audit committee. AuditSize: audit size. UnrelatedAudit: percentage of independent directors on audit committee
3,993)*** Financing -0,025 0,975 (1,651)* (7,708)*** , volume 4
L Abbott , S Y Park , Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Abbott L
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Gatot Soepriyanto , Sienny Tjokroaminoto , Arfian Erma Zudana
Annual report readability and accounting irregularities: evidence from public listed companies in Indonesia
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 793 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Puritud Inya , Jim Psaros , Michael Seamer
The Relevance of Western Corporate Governance in Mitigating Management Misconduct in Thailand
Emerging Markets Finance and Trade , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1425 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Gatot Soepriyanto , Engkos Achmad Kuncoro , Arfian Erma Zudana , Livia Averine
Does Executive Compensation Affect Accounting Irregularities? Evidence From Listed Firms in Indonesia
SAGE Open , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 215824402211111 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Dingru Liu , Shanyue Jin
How Does Corporate ESG Performance Affect Financial Irregularities?
Sustainability , volume 15 , issue 13 , p. 9999 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,095
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,711
RANK
46,009
7 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies