Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Tax Informants be Paid? The Law and Economics of a Government Monopsony

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 28, No. 237, Summer 2008

Posted: 6 Feb 2009

Kneave Riggall

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 5, 2009

Abstract

More than 140 years ago, the United States Government began to solicit information about violations of federal tax law. Currently, the Internal Revenue Service (Service) runs two reward programs for tax informants, with rewards of up to 30% of the amounts collected as a result of the information supplied.

This article analyzes the demand for information about tax cheating microeconomically, legally and mathematically. It concludes that the Service is essentially a monopsonist in this market, since almost no one else will pay for such information. This leads to a prediction that the number and quality of tax tips, and the resulting federal revenues, will be maximized if Congress unifies the Service's two reward programs and uses the more generous reward structure of its whistleblower program.

Next, this article analyzes the supply of information about tax cheats. In addition to the overwhelming likelihood that the Service will not pay an informant for her information, she must consider the potentially huge costs of being exposed as a tax informant. This article describes those costs of production and proposes that Congress shift some of them to the Service by waiving federal immunity to the claims of informants for breach of the Service's promises of confidentiality. This article details various federal and state laws, some based on professional rules of conduct, that forbid certain potential tax informants from sharing their information with the Service on pains of disbarment from their professions or imprisonment. This article then proposes a universal standard for such laws and professional rules.

The article also offers suggestions for further research and for legislative and administrative changes that will increase the government's revenues, net of rewards paid, from the program. After concluding, the article provides an Appendix that describes mathematically the supply and demand functions of the market for federal tax informants.

Keywords: Whistleblowers, tax informants, law and economics, tax evasion

JEL Classification: D42, D26, K34, K42, L12

Suggested Citation:

Riggall, Kneave, Should Tax Informants be Paid? The Law and Economics of a Government Monopsony (February 5, 2009). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 28, No. 237, Summer 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1338245
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,086
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies