Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud in Emerging Markets: A Cross Country Analysis

Cross Cultural Management: An International Journal, Vol. 16, pp. 301-316, 2009

27 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2009 Last revised: 25 Feb 2012

Christopher J. Skousen

Utah State University - School of Accountancy

Brady J. Twedt

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 27, 2009

Abstract

The purpose of our research is to determine the likelihood of financial statement manipulations in companies throughout a variety of emerging market countries and compare this potential to that of firms within the United States. We do this by utilizing the Fraud Score Model as set forth by Dechow, et al. (2007). By adjusting their model to work in an international setting, we are able to study nine industries across twenty-three countries, including the United States. The results vary industry to industry, with some countries performing extremely well in one industry only to prove remarkably risky in the next. Our findings may be used by a variety of market participants, especially investors, to determine the risk levels of potential foreign investments. Therefore, this research can help lead to a more overall efficient placement of global capital.

Keywords: Emerging Markets, Fraud

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M47

Suggested Citation:

Skousen, Christopher J. and Twedt, Brady J., Fraud in Emerging Markets: A Cross Country Analysis (March 27, 2009). Cross Cultural Management: An International Journal, Vol. 16, pp. 301-316, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1340586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang , C D Williams
Accounting quality: International accounting standards and US GAAP Posted: 2006
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP violation: Implications for assessing earnings management among firms with extreme financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
Crossref
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
H Deangelo , L Deangelo , D Skinner
Accounting choice in troubled companies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 143 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,652
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,010
RANK
25,067
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies