Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CAMEL Based Derived W-Score Function for Banks Performance Evaluation: An Urgent Necessity

16 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2009 Last revised: 8 Apr 2009

Wirnkar Alphonsius Dzeawuni

Gombe State University, Gombe

Date Written: March 7, 2009

Abstract

While the consequences of the credit crunch appear all too apparent, the intricacies of the complex financial instruments involved, combined with the vast sweep of the global financial system, seem to defy explanation. Attempts to accuse negligent regulators, fraudulent brokers and greedy borrowers cast much blame but little light on the causes of the crises. This paper has as its primary objective not to advise on the measures to be taken to combat the present economic state but to derive an integral CAMEL based function that can be used by banks regulators and managements to check, monitor, identify and correct emerging problems at short notice on a daily, weekly, monthly or annul basis before they become out-of-bounds or unbearable. The data for this research work is secondary. The study builds on the coefficients of the identified best ratios for CAMEL now CLEAM as in Wirnkar and Tanko (2008) at SSRN http://ssrn.com/abstract=1150968. Statistical techniques are used to further manipulate the data towards arriving at the objective of the paper. The paper derived a function known as the W-Score. That is W-Score =0.20886579C-0.197883635L 0.197834192E-0.197730975A-0.197685405M. The respective W-scores for best performing bank, average performing bank and least performing bank were ascertained. Margins of safety for each component in CAMEL were also computed. As one of the recommendations of this paper, bank' regulators and those in academia are implored to test the efficacy of the CAMEL (CLEAM) derived function and certify its application in the banking industry.

Keywords: Credit Crunch, Global Financial Meltdown, Bank Performance, Camel, CLEAM, W-Score Function

JEL Classification: G21, G34

Suggested Citation:

Dzeawuni, Wirnkar Alphonsius, CAMEL Based Derived W-Score Function for Banks Performance Evaluation: An Urgent Necessity (March 7, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1355043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1355043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
I strongly recommend bank' regulators and those in academia to test the efficacy of the CAMEL (CLEAM) derived function (W-Score (fn) and certify its application in the banking industry
If this derived function is found effective, a software compiler be designed and manufactured so that the performance state of a bank can be easily and quickly ascertained at a point in time
More research work needs to be carried-out especially at this time of global financial melt down to find better ways of identifying emerging problems in the banking industry for corrective measures
I Altman , Edward
Discriminant Analysis and Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Financial Ratios Posted: 1968-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
800
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,197
RANK
71,004
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Bank Performance, Efficiency and Ownership in Transitition Countries

By John Bonin, Paul Wachtel, ...

Bank Ownership and Performance

By Alejandro Micco, Ugo Panizza, ...

Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: A Joint Analysis of the Static, Selection, and Dynamic Effects of Domestic, Foreign, and State Ownership

By Allen N. Berger, George R. G. Clarke, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies