Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relevance of Forensic Accounting to Financial Crimes in Private and Public Sectors of Third World Economies: A Study from Nigeria

Proceedings of The 1st International Conference on Governance Fraud Ethics and Social Responsibility, June 11-13, 2009

24 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2009 Last revised: 20 Apr 2009

Abubakar Kasum

University of Ilorin

Date Written: April 15, 2009

Abstract

The paper studied financial crimes in developing economies. Fraud and corruption has affected the lives of citizens of third world countries negatively, it is engraved in the systems, it is alarming and seriously devastating. The work specifically evaluates the extent of financial crimes in developing countries and compares the private and public sector with a view to determine the sector where the services of forensic accountants is more required. The results of our reviews are that fraud and corruption are fundamental problems of third world countries. Empirically, we found that investigative or forensic accountant has a role to play, generally, but more in the public sector. We then recommend the strengthening of forensic accounting institution and utilization of their services in public sector of developing nations economies.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Financial crime, Third World Economies, Fraud, Corruption

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kasum, Abubakar Sadiq, The Relevance of Forensic Accounting to Financial Crimes in Private and Public Sectors of Third World Economies: A Study from Nigeria (April 15, 2009). Proceedings of The 1st International Conference on Governance Fraud Ethics and Social Responsibility, June 11-13, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1384242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1384242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
J J Adefila , A S Kasum , T A Olaniyi
The Global Endemic Nature of Financial Malpractices: An Analytical Appraisal
African Journal of Management , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 20 Posted: 2005
A Ajisebutu
Financial Statement Fraud: What Auditors should know
The Nigerian Accountant , volume 39 , issue 2 Posted: 2006
I Balarebe
EFCC and the law Posted: 2005
T L Coenen
Forensic Accounting
A new twist on bean counting Posted: 2005
Load more
19 Citations
Professor Alain Aime Ndedi , Professor Kelly Mua Kingsly
Challenges Facing the Fight Against Fraud and Corruption Practices in the Cameroonian Public Sector
17 Pages · Posted: 2 Feb 2015 · Last revised: 6 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 981
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Habeeb Abdulrauf Salihu
Combating corruption in the Nigerian Civil Service
Journal of Money Laundering Control , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 267 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Elif Yücel
Handbook of Research on Theory and Practice of Financial Crimes
, p. 218 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Ali Faya Al Hassan
Forensic Accounting: The Case of Saudi Arabia
Open Journal of Accounting , volume 13 , issue 03 , p. 116 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,962
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,990
RANK
4,290
19 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Forensic Accounting in Fraud Investigation and Litigation Support

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Forensic Accounting in Developing Economies Problems and Prospects

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

An Empirical Investigation of the Relevant Skills of Forensic Accountants in Nigeria

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye and Jugu Yohanna G.

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies