Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Electoral Accountability and Corruption: Evidence from the Audits of Local Governments

NBER Working Paper No. w14937

40 Pages Posted: 3 May 2009 Last revised: 26 Oct 2022

Claudio Ferraz

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Agricultural & Resource Economics; Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA)

Frederico Finan

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Date Written: April 2009

Abstract

Political institutions can affect corruption. We use audit reports from an anti-corruption program in Brazil to construct new measures of political corruption in local governments and test whether electoral accountability affects the corruption practices of incumbent politicians. We find significantly less corruption in municipalities where mayors can get reelected. Mayors with re-election incentives misappropriate 27 percent fewer resources than mayors without re-election incentives. These effects are more pronounced among municipalities with less access to information and where the likelihood of judicial punishment is lower. Overall our findings suggest that electoral rules that enhance political accountability play a crucial role in constraining politician's corrupt behavior.

Suggested Citation:

Ferraz, Claudio and Finan, Frederico, Electoral Accountability and Corruption: Evidence from the Audits of Local Governments (April 2009). NBER Working Paper No. w14937, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1397935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Alberto Abadie , Guido Imbens
Large Sample Properties of Matching Estimators for Average Treatment Effects
Econometrica , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 267 Posted: 2006
Alicia Adsera , Carles Boix , Mark Payne
Are You Being Served? Political Accountability and the Quality of Government
The Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 445 - 490 Posted: 2003
James Alt , Ethan Bueno De Mesquita , Shanna Rose
Accountability, Selection, and Term Limits: Theory and Evidence from US State Elections Posted: 2007
Oriana Bandiera , Andrea Prat , Tommaso Valletti
Active and Passive Waste in Government Spending: Evidence from a Policy Experiment
Forthcoming in American Economic Review Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,812
RANK
580,030
58 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Monitoring Corruption: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Indonesia

By Benjamin A. Olken

Who Must Pay Bribes and How Much? Evidence from a Cross-Section of Firms

By Jakob Svensson

Who Must Pay Bribes and How Much? Evidence from a Cross-Section of Firms

By Jakob Svensson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies