Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ Reliance and Responsibility to Supervise and Auditors’ Duty of Care Planassurance PAC Formerly Known as Patrick Lee Pac v Gaelic Inns Pte Ltd

15 Pages Posted: 7 May 2009

Aiman Nariman Mohd-Sulaiman

International Islamic University Malaysia - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 6, 2009

Abstract

A recent Singapore Court of Appeal’s decision, Planassurance PAC Formerly known as Patrick Lee PAC v Gaelic Inns Pte Ltd highlights the relationship between directors amongst themselves and with auditors in relation to the financial statements. The case is an interesting read as it explains the relationship between directors amongst themselves in relation to the extent to which a director may rely on another director (in the case of non-executive directors to rely on executive directors) and other officers as well as to what amounts to reasonable reliance. The case is also topical as it also focuses on the relationship between the auditor and the company, a topic of interest in view of numerous financial reporting failures and the current economic meltdown. The issues raised in Gaelic Inns is relevant to Malaysia due to the similarities in the law.

Keywords: directors' duty of care, reasonable reliance , relationship between auditors and directors

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Mohd-Sulaiman, Aiman Nariman, Directors’ Reliance and Responsibility to Supervise and Auditors’ Duty of Care Planassurance PAC Formerly Known as Patrick Lee Pac v Gaelic Inns Pte Ltd (May 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1400448 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1400448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
SC raps Nasioncom and directs company to re-issue 2005 financial statements -Ensures investors have true financial figures Posted: 2005-03
Regulation 86 states "the directors may delegate any of their powers to committees consisting of such members or members of their body as they think fit; any committee so formed shall in the exercise of the powers so delegated conform to any regulations that may be imposed on it by the directors
Mrs , Langford
was held to be unfit as a director as she had left the financial and strategic directions of the company to be made by a group of directors and had left the management of the company entirely to her husband and Watson. She therefore failed to exercise independent judgment and had not acted in the best interest of the company 'by ensuring that decisions of this kind were brought to and
Section 157A of the Singapore Companies Act (Cap 50)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,532
RANK
176,588
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies