Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation of the Impact of Preparer Penalty Provisions on Tax Preparer Aggressiveness

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Jul 2011 Last revised: 23 Jul 2011

Victoria J. Hansen

State University of New York at New Paltz

Richard A. White

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Date Written: July 14, 2011

Abstract

Public and government outrage over abusive tax cases led to significant changes in the preparer penalty laws under the Small Business Work Opportunity Act of 2007. This study experimentally examines the effectiveness of the revised preparer penalty provisions at reducing tax preparer aggressiveness. Specifically, we examine the impact of two significant components of the changes to the preparer penalty provisions, penalty amount and reporting standard required to avoid penalty imposition, on tax preparers’ recommendation and signing decisions involving an aggressive tax position. The increase in penalty amount has no effect on tax preparers’ recommendation decisions, but does effect their signing decisions; client advocacy may be a possible explanation for this outcome. A higher reporting standard significantly reduces both tax preparers’ willingness to recommend an aggressive position and to sign a tax return containing an aggressive position. Of the two penalty components, the results suggest that the higher reporting standard is more effective at reducing tax preparer aggressiveness than the higher penalty amount. In light of these results, Congress may want to reconsider subsequent legislation that lowers the reporting standard for some decisions (nontax avoidance decisions) that tax preparers make with their clients.

Keywords: tax preparer penalties, likelihood of sustaining threshold, tax preparer aggressiveness, advocacy, threat/opportunity perception

Suggested Citation:

Glackin, Victoria J. and White, Richard A., An Investigation of the Impact of Preparer Penalty Provisions on Tax Preparer Aggressiveness (July 14, 2011). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1403444
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies