Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meet Two-Face: The Dualistic Rule 10b-5 and the Quandary of Offsetting Losses by Gains

Fordham Law Review, Vol. 77, pp. 3045-3094, 2009

50 Pages Posted: 14 May 2009

Samuel Francis

Fordham University - Fordham Law Review

Abstract

The challenge of calculating damages in securities litigation is often compounded by the phenomenon of investors that have accrued both gains and losses as a result of the defendant company’s same fraudulent misrepresentations. This Note traces the opposing damages approaches and accounting methods courts have adopted in these instances to the dual origins and objectives of the Rule 10b-5 private right of action. Underscoring the shortcomings in these damages calculations founded predominantly upon either deterrent or compensatory grounds, this Note instead strives for a measure that not only balances both imperative ends but also yields a more sensible and equitable outcome. Namely, this Note proposes that losses should only be offset by gains when they are sufficiently linked by an ongoing trading strategy, and that matching sales of securities with the latest purchases will most clearly reflect gains and losses during the class period.

Keywords: Rule 10b-5, Securities Litigation, Damages, Offsetting, Netting, Transactional, LIFO, FIFO

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Samuel, Meet Two-Face: The Dualistic Rule 10b-5 and the Quandary of Offsetting Losses by Gains. Fordham Law Review, Vol. 77, pp. 3045-3094, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1404723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Cir. 1943); see also Wood v. Comm'r, 197 F.2d , volume 219
See Financial Accounting Standards Board, Facts About FASB Posted: 2009-04-05
Crossref
Financial Accounting Standards Board, Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Council Posted: 2009-04-05
Crossref
Although the SEC has statutory authority to establish financial accounting and reporting standards for publicly held companies under the Exchange Act, throughout its history the SEC's policy has been "to rely on the private sector for this function to the extent that the private sector demonstrates ability to fulfill the responsibility in the public interest
See Commission Statement of Policy Reaffirming the Status of the FASB as a Designated Private-Sector Standard Setter , volume 23 Posted: 2003-04-25
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,095
RANK
368,155
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies