Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Manipulation of Executive Stock Option Exercise Strategies: Information Timing and Backdating

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2009 Last revised: 14 Aug 2009

David C. Cicero

Harbert College of Business, Auburn University

Date Written: May 1, 2009

Abstract

I identify three option exercise strategies executives engage in, including (i) exercising with cash and immediately selling the shares, (ii) exercising with cash and holding the shares, and (iii) delivering some shares to the company to cover the exercise costs and holding the remaining shares. Stock price patterns suggest executives manipulate option exercises. They use private information to increase the profitability of all three strategies, and likely backdated some exercise dates in the pre-Sarbanes-Oxley period to enhance the profitability of the latter two strategies, where the executive’s company is the only counterparty. Backdating is associated with reporting of internal control weaknesses.

Keywords: executive compensation, options, backdating, corporate governance, internal controls, option exercise, insider trading, informed trading

JEL Classification: G32, G38, J33, J44, K22

Suggested Citation:

Cicero, David C., The Manipulation of Executive Stock Option Exercise Strategies: Information Timing and Backdating (May 1, 2009). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1416906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Aboody , John S David , Jing Hughes , Wei Liu , Su
Are executive stock option exercises driven by private information?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 14 , p. 551 - 571 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M. P. Narayanan , H. Nejat Seyhun
Effect of Sarbanes-Oxley Act on the Influencing of Executive Compensation
Pages: 45 Posted: 17 Aug 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M P Narayanan , H Nejat Seyhun
The dating game: do managers designate option grant dates to increase their compensation?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 1907 - 1954 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Auditing Standard No. 2: An audit of internal controls over financial reporting performed in conjunction with an audit of financial statements
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) Posted: 2004
Load more
3 Citations
George Ryan Huston , Janet McDonald Huston , Mark J. Mellon , Thomas Joseph Smith
What Does an Executive Stock Sale Tell the Market? Evidence from Sale Transactions Following Stock Option Exercises
42 Pages · Posted: 8 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 82
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bradley W. Benson , Hui L. James , Jung Chul Park
Heterogeneity in the Effect of Managerial Equity Incentives on Firm Value
Financial Review, Vol. 54, Issue 3, pp. 583-638, 2019 · 56 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2020 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jie He , Lei Li , Tao Shu
Workplace Inequality in the U.S. and Managerial Rent Extraction: Evidence from Pay Growth Gaps
European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 834/2022, · 59 Pages · Posted: 21 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 8 May 2024 · Downloads: 369
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
650
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,505
RANK
93,094
3 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies