Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Tenure, Managerial Fraud, and Report Qualification: Theory and Evidence

64 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2009

Richard J. Fairchild

University of Bath - School of Management

Ian Crawford

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hassan Saqlain

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 16, 2009

Abstract

We consider the effect of auditor tenure on the level of managerial fraud and the extent of auditor qualification of reports. We consider two conflicting effects. As auditor tenure increases, the auditor's ability to detect fraud increases (the learning curve effect), which reduces the manager's fraud incentives. On the other hand, the auditor may become more sympathetic towards management (the loss of independence effect), which may increase fraud incentives. In order to analyse these issues, we develop an auditing game in which the manager makes an unobservable decision whether or not to commit fraud. The auditor then decides whether to perform a basic or extended audit. The level of audit affects the probability of fraud-detection. Following the outcome of the audit, the auditor then decides whether to issue a qualified or unqualified report. In equilibrium, the effect of auditor tenure on fraud and report qualification depends on whether the auditor's ability or the auditor's loss of independence dominates. Interestingly, longer auditor tenure may result in lower levels of report qualification due to two possible reasons; either an increase in auditor empathy (turning a blind eye to fraud), which suggests that auditor tenure may lead to more fraud, or an increase in the auditor's ability to detect fraud, which acts as a deterrence, leading to less fraud.

Next, we consider evidence regarding the relationship between auditor tenure, managerial fraud and report qualification. First, we test our model using a database comprising a ten-year history of UK entities filing qualified financial statements in order to empirically test the relationship between length of auditor tenure and report qualification, and the impact of auditor change. We confine our analysis to simple qualification of financial statements. Our empirical results suggest that auditors with longer term relationships with their clients are less likely to qualify accounts in later years, and consider the impact of this on audit planning. Second, we conduct a survey of bankers, accountants and auditors in Pakistan regarding their perceptions of the relationship between auditor tenure and auditor independence. Finally, we develop and conduct a behavioural experiment regarding the effect of client-auditor relationships on report qualification.

We conclude by considering the ethical dimensions of our model, and we provide policy implications in relation to the ongoing debate regarding mandatory turnover of auditors.

Keywords: auditor tenure, fraud, game theory, evidence

Suggested Citation:

Fairchild, Richard J. and Crawford, Ian and Saqlain, Hassan, Auditor Tenure, Managerial Fraud, and Report Qualification: Theory and Evidence (June 16, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
871
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,080
RANK
63,359
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies