Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Options, Enforcement of Goodwill/Intangibles Rules, and Associated Behavioral Issues

24 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2009 Last revised: 6 Jan 2014

Michael C. I. Nwogugu

Independent

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This article analyzes several problems and psychological issues pertaining to the enforcement and efficiency of the US Goodwill and Intangibles accounting regulations (SFAS #141RR, Business Combinations, and SFAS #142, Accounting for Goodwill and Intangible Assets). These regulations are likely to increase the incidence of fraud and misconduct. This article shows that the standard real options analysis framework is not entirely applicable to litigation about Goodwill/Intangibles disclosure. This article also introduces a new Goodwill/intangibles disclosure/accounting model that can reduce the incidence of fraud, information asymmetry, moral hazard, adverse selection and inaccuracy; and also introduces new economic psychological theories that can explain fraud, misconduct and non-compliance arising from the implementation of SFAS 141R/142. The issues analyzed and theories developed in this article are also applicable to International Accounting Standards Board’s (IASB) IFRS-3R (Business Combinations (Goodwill accounting) and IAS 38 Intangible Assets (accounting for Intangible Assets).

Keywords: Fraud, Mergers & Acquisitions, disclosure, economic psychology, Real Options, Goodwill, complexity, Intangibles

JEL Classification: M45, M44

Suggested Citation:

Nwogugu, Michael C. I., Real Options, Enforcement of Goodwill/Intangibles Rules, and Associated Behavioral Issues (2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1429826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1429826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
C Agoglia , T Doupnik , G Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based Accounting standards: The Influence Of Standard Precision And Audit Committee Strength On Financial Reporting Decisions‖
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B Al-Shammari , P Brown , &amp; A Tarca
An Investigation Of Compliance With International Accounting Standards By Listed Companies In The Gulf Cooperation Council member States‖
The International Journal Of Accounting , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 447 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Antunes , &amp; A Cavalcanti , Villamil
The Effect of Financial Repression And Enforcement On Entrepreneurship And Economic Development
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 278 - 297 Posted: 2008
Crossref
O Bar-Gill
Pricing Legal Options: A Behavioral Perspective‖
Review Of law & Economics , volume 1 , p. 203 - 223 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,970
RANK
805,600
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Misadventure and the Form of Payment in Corporate Acquisitions

By Tyrone M. Carlin, Guy Ford, ...

Corporate Governance, Credit Risk and Legal Reasoning - the Case of Encompass Services Inc.

By Michael C. I. Nwogugu

Financial Accounting and Corporate Behavior

By David I. Walker

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies