Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Collapse, Crime and Governance - Enron, Andersen and Beyond

Australian Journal of Corporate Law, Vol. 14, p. 183, 2002

20 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2009

Roman Tomasic

University of South Australia; Durham University - Law School

Date Written: 2002

Abstract

The corporate collapses of recent times, such as the massive collapses of Enron in the United States and HIH in Australia, have suggested that there are major systemic problems facing the way in which corporations and corporate governance operate. Some conduct associated with these collapses has been clearly criminal in character, such as the actions of accounting firm Anderson in shredding audit related papers after a regulatory investigation into Enron had been announced. The use of off-balance sheet structures by Enron, so as to avoid adequate disclosure or transparency, has also offended basic corporate governance notions. Some conduct associated with the collapse of pivotal institutions such as these have led to the disqualification of directors and even to the disappearance of one of the world's great accounting firms. Recent corporate collapses have also struck at the basis of investor and public confidence in previously highly regarded companies and professional firms and have led to calls for a reassessment of ethical standards, auditing practices, executive reward structures, governance practices and disclosure principles. This article reviews some of the factors which have led us to this bleak juncture in the history of corporate governance.

Keywords: Enron, corporate governance, corporate collpase, corporate law

JEL Classification: K22, G34, G33

Suggested Citation:

Tomasic, Roman A., Corporate Collapse, Crime and Governance - Enron, Andersen and Beyond (2002). Australian Journal of Corporate Law, Vol. 14, p. 183, 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1440769 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1440769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
R Tomasic
Corporate Crime and its Regulation: Issues and Prospects
Crime and the Criminal Justice System in Australia: 2000 and Beyond , p. 259 - 70 Posted: 1990
Company & Securities L Jnl , p. 369 - 82
Crossref
R Tomasic
Sanctioning Corporate Crime and Misconduct: Beyond Draconian and Decriminalisation Solutions' (1992) 2 Aust Jnl of Corp Law 82-114; and R Tomasic
Corporations Law Enforcement Strategies in Australia: The Influence of Professional, Corporate and Bureaucratic Cultures Posted: 1993
Aust Jnl of Corp Law , p. 192 - 229
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,597
RANK
31,365
3 Citations
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies