Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Transfer Pricing’ - An International Taxation Issue Concerning the Balance of Interest Between the Tax Payer and Tax Administrator

Company Law Journal, Forthcoming

8 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2009

Sayantan Gupta

Hidayatullah National Law University, Raipur, India

Date Written: April 24, 2009

Abstract

The variance in tax rates across different countries prompts many corporations which operate in more than one country to shift their profits to low-tax locations. This results in tax revenue loss to countries with high tax regimes. Transfer pricing (TP) legislation is used as a tool to curb tax avoidance by manipulating prices charged on intra-group cross-border transactions in such a way as to maximize the taxable profits in low tax jurisdictions and minimise such profits in high tax countries. Though the transfer pricing (TP) provisions are exhaustive in many respects and are, generally, in line with international practices prescribing methodologies, documentation requirements and penalties, they fail to provide the taxpayer the facility of obtaining Advance Pricing Agreement and do not specifically address special situations such as intangibles, e-com, global trading derivatives and so on, which require special consideration. While transfer pricing is a necessary tax provision to get our share of revenue from international transactions, it should be administered with sensitivity so as not to kill the goose that lays the golden egg!

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Sayantan, ‘Transfer Pricing’ - An International Taxation Issue Concerning the Balance of Interest Between the Tax Payer and Tax Administrator (April 24, 2009). Company Law Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1460464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
736
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,277
RANK
79,351
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies