Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating JP Morgan Chase’s Profits from the Madoff Deposits

25 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2009 Last revised: 30 Jan 2010

Lou Davis

University of Louisiana at Lafayette - College of Business Administration

Linus Wilson

University of Louisiana at Lafayette - College of Business Administration

Date Written: January 28, 2010

Abstract

JP Morgan Chase had deposits from Bernard L. Madoff’s investors totaling $5.5 billion at one point in 2008. The Chase account was supposedly where most of the funds in his Ponzi scheme were deposited. Any large deposit can be a considerable source of profit to a bank. Assuming that the deposits returned the bank’s net interest margin and grew at a random geometric rate, this paper estimates that JP Morgan Chase generated $435 million in after-tax profits from this very large account over the course of sixteen years. With JP Morgan Chase the target of pending lawsuits relating to the Madoff fraud, this paper’s methodology and results may be of interest to litigants, prosecutors, journalists, and academics.

Keywords: deposits, fraud, JP Morgan Chase, litigation, Madoff, Monte Carlo simulation, net interest margin (NIM), Ponzi schemes, valuation

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G24, K13, K14, K23, K41, K42

Suggested Citation:

Davis, Lou and Wilson, Linus, Estimating JP Morgan Chase’s Profits from the Madoff Deposits (January 28, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1460706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1460706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Erin Arvedlund
Too Good to be True: The Rise and Fall of Bernie Madoff Posted: 2009
Crossref
Carole Bernard , Phelim P Boyle
Mr. Madoff's Amazing Returns: An Analysis of the Split-Strike Conversion Strategy
Journal of Derivatives , volume 17 , p. 62 - 76 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Pierre Clauss , Thierry Roncalli , Guillaume Weisang
Risk Management Lessons from the Madoff Fraud
International Finance Review , volume 10 , p. 505 - 543 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Christopher L Culp , J B Heaton
Returns, Risk, and Financial Due Diligence
Finance Ethics: Critical Issues in Financial Theory and Practice Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Yoshihiko Kadoya , Mostafa Saidur Rahim Khan , Tomomi Yamane
The rising phenomenon of financial scams: evidence from Japan
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 387 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
577
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,655
RANK
108,519
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Risk Management Lessons from Madoff Fraud

By Pierre Clauss, Thierry Roncalli, ...

Madoff: A Riot of Red Flags

By Greg N. Gregoriou and Francois Lhabitant

Why the SEC Failed: Regulators Against Regulation

By Norman S. Poser

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies