Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Earnings Management and Subsequent Operating Performance*

34 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2009

Denise Leggett

University of Alabama

Linda M. Parsons

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Austin L. Reitenga

University of Alabama

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

Real earnings management (REM) is the manipulation of business activities to meet an earnings threshold. Despite concern that REM activities create real economic costs, research on the relation between REM and subsequent operating performance is inconclusive. We develop two firm-level methods of estimating abnormal discretionary expenditures and implement a more proactive method of identifying REM activity. Using firm-level estimates of abnormal expenditures, we find strong evidence that REM is negatively related to subsequent period return on assets and cash flows from operations. Our results suggest that the inconclusive results in prior research may be in part due to estimating abnormal expenditures using industry-level models.

Keywords: Real earnings management, discretionary expenditures, operating performance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Leggett, Denise and Parsons, Linda M. and Reitenga, Austin L., Real Earnings Management and Subsequent Operating Performance* (September 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1466411 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1466411
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
W R Baber , P M Fairfield , J A Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
M Bange , W. De Bondt
R&D budgets and corporate earnings targets
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 4 , p. 153 - 184 Posted: 1998
Crossref
E Bartov
The timing of asset sales and earnings manipulation Posted: 1993
J Barton , P J Simko
The balance sheet as an earnings management constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,693
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,276
RANK
24,111
12 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies