Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beware of the Beta Flip! Pitfalls in DCF-Valuations of Temporarily and Sustainably Distressed Companies and How to Avoid Them

33 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2009

Matthias Meitner

Allianz SE

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper is a guide on how to perform DCF valuations of distressed companies from the viewpoint of a well diversified investor. It is shown that companies with temporarily negative cash flows typically only require minor (though not negligible) adjustments to the discount rate. Contrary to that, for companies that persistently show an operating underperformance, discount rates look quite different than for - apart from their performance - comparable companies. It is further outlined that even companies with sustainably positive but relatively low cash flows can have a negative business value. Finally, we show how to account for all this in practical valuations by adjusting beta factors that are drawn from comparable companies. The findings of this paper challenge the conventional equity valuation practice and the common academic views on this topic. In the light of the current recessionary economic environment this paper is of high practical relevance for both academics as well as accountants and public equity analysts.

Keywords: Valuation, Equity Valuation, Discounting, Discounted Cash Flow, DCF, CAPM, Beta, low cash flows, negative cash flows, distress

JEL Classification: G12, M21

Suggested Citation:

Meitner, Matthias, Beware of the Beta Flip! Pitfalls in DCF-Valuations of Temporarily and Sustainably Distressed Companies and How to Avoid Them (September 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1466654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1466654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Ariel
Risk adjusted discount rates and the present value of risky costs
The Financial Review , volume 33 , p. 17 - 30 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S Bar-Yosef , R Mesznik
On Some Definitional Problems with the Method of Certainty Equivalents
Journal of Finance , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 1729 - 1737 Posted: 1977
Crossref
R H Berry , R G Dyson
On the Negative Risk Premium for Risk Adjusted Discount Rates
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 427 - 436 Posted: 1980
Crossref
R H Berry , R G Dyson
On the negative risk premium for risk adjusted discount rates, a reply
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 157 - 159 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,277
RANK
188,511
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies