Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Documentation Specificity and Priming on Auditors’ Fraud Risk Assessments and Evidence Evaluation Decisions

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Sep 2009

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

E. Michael Bamber

University of Georgia

Tina Carpenter

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: August 31, 2009

Abstract

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) recently suggested that auditors’ lack of specific fraud planning documentation has led auditors to devote insufficient attention to fraud risks in subsequent audit work. Guided by Support Theory, we experimentally investigate how the specificity of fraud risk documentation during audit planning influences auditors’ subsequent audit work. We also examine the effect of priming auditors about the fraud risks identified during planning before they begin subsequent evidence evaluation. We find that auditors’ planning stage efforts affect subsequent fraud risk assessments and evidence evaluation decisions. Unprimed auditors who receive more specific documentation increase their fraud risk assessments and evidence requests. Priming’s effects are more complex. Priming auditors who receive summary documentation also increases fraud risk assessments and evidence requests; however, priming auditors who receive specific documentation reduces these judgments because the priming makes the client-specific risks seem less typical. Accordingly, the PCAOB’s call for more documentation can have the unintended consequence of reducing auditors’ sensitivity to fraud.

Keywords: Audit documentation, Evidence evaluation, Fraud risk, Priming, Support Theory

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hammersley, Jacqueline S. and Bamber, E. Michael and Carpenter, Tina, The Influence of Documentation Specificity and Priming on Auditors’ Fraud Risk Assessments and Evidence Evaluation Decisions (August 31, 2009). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1467080
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,396
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies