Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public vs. Private Enforcement of Antitrust Law in Unilateral Conduct Cases - The Interaction Between the Economic Review of the Prohibition of Abuses of Dominant Positions and Private Enforcement

Max Planck Institute for Intellectual Property, Competition & Tax Law Research Paper No. 09-11

35 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2009

Mark-Oliver Mackenrodt

Max Planck Institute for Innovation and Competition

Date Written: November 10, 2009

Abstract

The present paper analyzes the interaction between the economic review of the probition of abuses of a dominant position (Article 82 EC) on the one hand and the efforts to enhance private enforcement of competition law through private damage claims on the other hand.

The paper argues that effective enforcement requires that exactly those cases should be selected for decision which cause the type of negative welfare effects that Article 82 EC seeks to prevent. The author finds that public enforcers seek to repress unilateral business strategies causing harm to competition as protected by Article 82 EC. Private plaintiffs, by contrast, are motivated by the prospect of gaining damage awards which depends on their individual harm. The paper distinguishes several groups of private plaintiffs. For each, it is asked whether there is a correlation between individual harm and harm to competition. As it turns out, there is a divergence in the incentives of public enforcers as compared to certain potential private enforcers. In cases where there is harm to competition but no or only little individual harm there is concern for an under-deterrence through private enforcement. On the other hand, there are cases where private parties have an incentive to go to court even though there is no or little harm to competition. This might result in an over-deterrence. The paper concludes by discussing the consequences for reaching an optimum level of enforcement and the influence of a more economic understanding of Article 82 EC.

A widely similar version of this paper has been published in: Mackenrodt, Mark-Oliver/Conde Gallego, Beatriz/Enchelmaier, Stefan (eds), Abuse of Dominant Position: New Interpretation, New Enforcement Mechanism? Springer 2008.

Keywords: Antitrust, competition, private enforcement, public enforcement, litigation, deterrence, Article 82, unilateral conduct, abuse of dominant position, European Commission, White Paper, Green Paper

JEL Classification: K13, K21, K40, K41, K42, L12, L40, L41, G18

Suggested Citation:

Mackenrodt, Mark-Oliver, Public vs. Private Enforcement of Antitrust Law in Unilateral Conduct Cases - The Interaction Between the Economic Review of the Prohibition of Abuses of Dominant Positions and Private Enforcement (November 10, 2009). Max Planck Institute for Intellectual Property, Competition & Tax Law Research Paper No. 09-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1470611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1470611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,513
RANK
114,072
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Public Law: EU eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies