Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Control Systems, Forensic Accounting and Financial Rereporting

Posted: 20 Sep 2009

Padma Srinivasan

Manipal University, Bangalore Campus

Date Written: September 16, 2009

Abstract

Internal auditing systems ensure that the organization journeys in the path mapped by the management without having any operational hiccups. At times, these systems checks and plagues the means of resource leaks and may do away with fraudulent tendencies of system. If such tendencies are not curbed they bring about depletion of resources and may lead to Financial Rereporting. This implies that the organization has to take a stand to reexamine its financial reporting to the stakeholders and re-report is a defensive step to ensure a true and fair view and reporting of vital, material, relevant, financial information. This step can cost heavily to a company. It may lose its face and worth in the eyes of stakeholders, SEBI and government authorities. The organization may have to work harder to prove its mattel henceforth. They have to approach judiciously and construct an internal auditing firewall to reduce frauds or fictitious accounting entries. In this paper, the author has added the 2 live cases of Xerox ModiCorp and Devi Ahilya Vishwa Vidyalaya in India where there were needs to redo the existing control systems.

The first case is based on the details of the process adopted by Xerox ModiCorp to siphon funds by creating fictitious payments of cash and demand drafts to non existent companies who deducted an amount and paid back to the company. PricewaterhouseCoopers which audited and investigated into the Indian arm's functioning after the US parent was alerted about the possibility of XML's books of accounts not being in order. It has submitted its report also to the Department of Company Affairs. The second case is about a university named DAVV, where the auditors questioned for the irregularities in maintaining the accounts. Around Rs.2.5 crores was found to be missing from the cash books of the institute. DAVV registrar was the first to notice this discrepancy and reported the same to V-C. On proper auditing of cash books auditor was surprised to see that no cash book was maintained since last one year. And an unaccounted loss Rs 240, 73,058 was noticed.

PWC is also has noticed a consistent increase in the number of companies where the internal accounting and auditing systems have failed. This paper is about the final Rereporting needs of organizations where any malfunctioning of control system has happened leading to frauds and mismanagement.

Malafide employees have been in organizations from time immemorial but how they use the system- modus operandi is becoming complex especially in the technology driven business and the stakeholders are demanding more extensive and accurate information.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting in India, Financial Rereporting, Managerial control systems, Internal Audit

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Srinivasan, Padma, Internal Audit Control Systems, Forensic Accounting and Financial Rereporting (September 16, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1474188
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,177
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies