Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The SEC and the Madoff Scandal: Three Narratives in Search of a Story

Georgetown Law and Economics Research Paper No. 1475433

Georgetown Public Law Research Paper No. 1475433

19 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2009

Donald C. Langevoort

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: September 18, 2009

Abstract

This essay, part of a symposium on narrative in corporate law, considers various portrayals of the complicity of the SEC in the Bernard Madoff scandal - including the Commission's own Inspector General's report issued in September 2009. It considers possible explanations (revolving door problems, incompetence and sloth, etc.) but suggests that the story is deeper and more frustrating, arising out of the relative poverty in which the SEC operates, which in turn leads to habits of thought and action that leave too much unnoticed and undone. The interesting question, then: why the poverty? The essay concludes with a political explanation. While by no means meant to excuse the neglect in the Madoff matters, the essay suggests the possibility of a more sympathetic portrayal of the work-a-day world of securities regulation.

Keywords: securities fraud, Madoff, narrative

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Langevoort, Donald C., The SEC and the Madoff Scandal: Three Narratives in Search of a Story (September 18, 2009). Georgetown Law and Economics Research Paper No. 1475433, Georgetown Public Law Research Paper No. 1475433, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1475433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1475433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,945
RANK
41,635
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University Law Center Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Risk Management Lessons from Madoff Fraud

By Pierre Clauss, Thierry Roncalli, ...

Madoff: A Riot of Red Flags

By Greg N. Gregoriou and Francois Lhabitant

Why the SEC Failed: Regulators Against Regulation

By Norman S. Poser

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies