Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud in Company: Who Warns?

Posted: 8 Oct 2009 Last revised: 11 May 2015

Yahya Hassas Yeganeh

Allameh Tabataba'i University

Reza Daghani

Tarbiat Modares University; Tarbiat Modares University

V. Oskou

Independent

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

One of the most important issues will usually consider in the accounting and auditing financial statements is fraud problem. There are a lot of evidences about the efforts in manipulating accounting accounts and books of companies what interprets "cooking accounts or overlapping". During recent years financial scandal is common and customary issue in accounting and auditing and state that" fraud incentive isn’t only financial motivation." As far as TIME magazine called the year of 2002 as "the financial scandal." Scandal reports were released and recognized as a method of fraud detection. Topics in this article discussed about some investigations about fraud cases, what happens and why, what players have an important role in fraud detection through its identification? What people did not reveal the fraud? And how people make manifest the fraud?

Keywords: fraud, market view, enforcement view, international fraud acts

Suggested Citation:

Yeganeh, Yahya Hassas and Daghani, Reza and Daghani, Reza and Oskou, V., Fraud in Company: Who Warns? (2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1483588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1483588
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,497
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies