Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Equilibrium Relationships between Performance-Based Pay, Performance, and the Commission and Detection of Fraudulent Misreporting

The Accounting Review, 2018

58 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2009 Last revised: 4 Aug 2018

Buhui Qiu

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Steve L. Slezak

University of Cincinnati - Department of Finance - Real Estate

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 12, 2018

Abstract

We develop an agency model in which managerial information manipulation creates pooling and entails ex-post costs internal and/or external to the firm. We examine the implications of the strategic interactions between shareholders (who set internal governance and the manager’s incentive compensation), the manager (who exerts effort and reports on its outcome), and an external regulatory authority or RA (who investigates for fraud and levies penalties ex post). When the RA cannot pre-commit to an ex-post investigation strategy, a fraudulent equilibrium obtains if the firm’s internal governance costs are sufficiently high. Further, when the RA’s ex-post investigation cost is sufficiently high, the equilibrium pay-for-performance sensitivity (PFPS) is excessive relative to that which maximizes social welfare. In these cases, regulation that imposes a minimum internal governance standard (as with SOX) improves social welfare, but reduces firm value. Consistent with (so far fairly scant) post-SOX empirical evidence, but the opposite of the implications of signal-jamming models and equilibria with pre-commitment, the model implies an increase in minimum internal governance standards or ex-post penalties results in decreased PFPS and firm performance.

Keywords: Performance-Based Compensation, Performance, Fraud Commission, Fraud Detection

Suggested Citation:

Qiu, Buhui and Slezak, Steve L., The Equilibrium Relationships between Performance-Based Pay, Performance, and the Commission and Detection of Fraudulent Misreporting (June 12, 2018). The Accounting Review, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1484778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1484778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,570
RANK
94,800
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies