Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Discretion of Banks During a Financial Crisis

IMF Working Paper No. 09/207

42 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2009

Luc Laeven

European Central Bank (ECB); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Harry Huizinga

Tilburg University - Center for Economic Research (CentER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 2009

Abstract

This paper shows that banks use accounting discretion to overstate the value of distressed assets. Banks' balance sheets overvalue real estate-related assets compared to the market value of these assets, especially during the U.S. mortgage crisis. Share prices of banks with large exposure to mortgage-backed securities also react favorably to recent changes in accounting rules that relax fair-value accounting, and these banks provision less for bad loans. Furthermore, distressed banks use discretion in the classification of mortgage-backed securities to inflate their books. Our results indicate that banks' balance sheets offer a distorted view of the financial health of the banks.

Keywords: Accounting, Asset management, Asset prices, Bank accounting, Bank regulations, Banks, Financial crisis, Housing prices, Investment, Liquidity management, Real estate prices

JEL Classification: G21, M40

Suggested Citation:

Laeven, Luc A. and Huizinga, Harry, Accounting Discretion of Banks During a Financial Crisis (September 2009). IMF Working Paper No. 09/207, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1486525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
. . . References
Crossref
Appendix Variable Definitions and Data Sources
Crossref
Tables
Summary Statistics for Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
638
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,667
RANK
21,160
3 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies