Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the FBAR High-Penalty Regime

2011 IRS Research Bulletin

37 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2009 Last revised: 26 Feb 2011

Susan C. Morse

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: October 28, 2009

Abstract

Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (“FBAR”) requirements seek to solve a pressing information asymmetry problem relating to U.S. persons’ investment in non-U.S. financial accounts. FBAR reporting requires U.S. taxpayers themselves to disclose offshore account information to the U.S. government.

Noncompliance with FBAR requirements carries high potential penalties. These high penalties could serve some or all of the goals of deterrence, separation or signaling. To maximize the chance that a high-penalty regime will succeed at one or more of these goals, taxpayers should perceive that they actually face painful penalties for noncompliance and/or worthwhile rewards for compliance. They should lack close-substitute choices not subject to penalties. Finally, they should believe that the government has an effective mechanism for detecting noncompliers who attempt to masquerade as compliers. The FBAR reporting regime could include all of these features. Publicity and audit efforts have enhanced and can continue to enhance taxpayers’ perception of the likelihood of penalty imposition and noncompliance detection, and it is possible to remove the problematic close substitute of quiet disclosure.

Keywords: FBAR, offshore account, tax compliance

JEL Classification: H24, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Susan C., An Analysis of the FBAR High-Penalty Regime (October 28, 2009). 2011 IRS Research Bulletin, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1489026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
I R C See , 6038d
See P.L. 111-147 § 511(c). See also infra text accompanying notes 58-60 (contrasting § 6038D and FBAR requirements) Posted: 2010-03-18
Section 5314 was enacted in 1982. See Pub. L. 97-258
BSA"), Pub. L , volume 114 , p. 91 - 508 Posted: 1970
Steven Mark Levy
) (explaining that Title I of the BSA, codifi ed in the 12 U.S.C. sections, requires banks to maintain certain records and that Title II
Federal Money Laundering Regulation: Banking, Corporate and Securities Compliance Posted: 2003
See Levy
Th e grande dame of money laundering regulation is the statute commonly known as the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 , volume 37
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,528
RANK
274,044
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies