Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Psychological Pathways to Fraud: Understanding and Preventing Fraud in Organizations

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2009 Last revised: 12 Jan 2011

Pamela R. Murphy

Queen's University - Smith School of Business; Queen's University

Tina Dacin

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: November 1, 2010

Abstract

In response to calls for more research on how to prevent or detect fraud (ACAP, 2008; AICPA, 2002; Carcello et al., 2008; Wells, 2004), we develop a framework that identifies three psychological pathways to fraud, supported by multiple theories relating to moral intuition and disengagement, rationalization, and the role played by negative affect. The purpose of developing the framework is twofold: 1) to draw attention to important yet under-researched aspects of ethical decision-making, and 2) to increase our understanding of the psychology of committing fraud. Our framework builds on the existing fraud triangle (PCAOB, 2005) which is used by auditors to assess fraud risk. The fraud triangle is composed of three factors that, together, predict the likelihood of fraud within an organization: opportunity, incentive pressure, and attitude rationalization. We find that, when faced with the opportunity and incentive pressure, there are three psychological pathways to fraud nestled within attitude rationalization: 1) lack of awareness, 2) intuition coupled with rationalization, and 3) reasoning. These distinctions are important for fraud prevention because each of these paths is driven by a different psychological mechanism. This framework is useful in a number of ways. First, it identifies certain insidious situational factors in which individuals commit fraud without recognizing it. Second, it extends our knowledge of rationalization by theorizing that individuals use rationalization to avoid or reduce the negative affect that accompanies performing an unethical behavior. Negative affect is important because individuals wish to avoid it. Third, it identifies several other methods fraudsters use to reduce negative affect, each of which could serve as potential “psychological red flags” and helps predict future fraudulent behavior. Finally, our framework can be used as a theoretical foundation to explore several interventions designed to prevent fraud.

Keywords: fraud, fraud triangle, rationalization, negative affect, moral intuition, moral reasoning

JEL Classification: M4''8 M41

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Pamela R. and Dacin, Tina, Psychological Pathways to Fraud: Understanding and Preventing Fraud in Organizations (November 1, 2010). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1492765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
G B Adams , D L Balfour
Unmasking Administrative Evil Posted: 1998
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession (ACAP): 2008, Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession
Crossref
H Arendt
Thinking and Moral Considerations: A Lecture
Social Research , volume 51 , p. 7 - 37 Posted: 1984
AICPA): 2002, SAS No. 99: Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 2002-10
Load more
4 Citations
Charles D. Bailey
Unethical Practices by Accounting Researchers: Incidence, Intentions, and Insights
69 Pages · Posted: 31 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 3 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 312
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John Lauck , Eric Michael Negangard , Joseph Rakestraw
Cognitive Determinants of Aggressive Financial Reporting – The Combined Effects of Ego Depletion, Moral Identity, and an Ethical Intervention
46 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 142
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel , Thorben Tiedemann
Fraud in Accounting and Audit Research (1926–2019) – A Bibliometric Analysis
Accounting History Review, forthcoming, https://doi.org/10.1080/21552851.2022.2143827 · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 12 Dec 2022 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tisha King , Jonathan Farrar
To Punish or Not to Punish? The Impact of Tax Fraud Punishment on Observers’ Tax Compliance (Forthcoming in Journal of Business Ethics https://rdcu.be/cHfDk)
53 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 22 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 390
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,794
RANK
36,333
4 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Incentives and Prosocial Behavior

By Roland Bénabou and Jean Tirole

Incentives and Prosocial Behavior

By Roland Bénabou and Jean Tirole

Incentives and Prosocial Behavior

By Roland Bénabou and Jean Tirole

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies