Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Valuation, DLOM and Daubert: The Issue of Redundancy

Business Valuation Review, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2009 Last revised: 9 Jan 2011

Robert Comment

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 7, 2011

Abstract

Business valuations are a common subject of dispute in tax and divorce litigation, with the valuation consequences of private-company status of a closely held (often family) business being especially contentious. It is not well known that core valuation methodologies such as DCF analysis have the effect of discounting the future cash flows of small businesses substantially, generally by 40% to 60%, dollar-for-dollar, for lack of size alone. Because there is a strong empirical relation between size and liquidity, there is a great likelihood that any supplemental discounting for illiquidity will be redundant and entail double discounting. Accordingly, the large liquidity discounts or DLOMs that are accepted practice in business valuation and that have been embraced by many judges presumptively violate the Daubert requirement for reliability.

Keywords: Business valuation, liquidity discount, Daubert, small business

JEL Classification: A12, D74, G39, K34, K40

Suggested Citation:

Comment, Robert, Business Valuation, DLOM and Daubert: The Issue of Redundancy (January 7, 2011). Business Valuation Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1504134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1504134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,095
RANK
37,654
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies