Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combining Elements of the Fraud Triangle and Professional Skepticism in the Valuation of Lost Profits

12 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2009 Last revised: 12 Jan 2010

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: November 1, 2009

Abstract

Forensic accountants are frequently engaged to review business interruption or lost profits claims for insurance matters. Theoretically, the objective of business interruption insurance is to return the claimant to the position that they would have otherwise experienced had a loss not occurred. Generally, insurance policies consider the following methodology in order to quantify a loss; an insured is entitled to net income (loss) plus continuing expenses for the length of the loss period.

This concept was derived from an older model where lost profits recovery was based on gross earnings less discontinued expenses. Forensic accountants in general use one or more of the following methodologies for calculating business interruption losses; 1) The Before-and-After Method, 2) The Comparable Method (or yardstick method), 3) The But For Method, 4) The Breach of Contract Method. When applying the methodological considerations in the application of forensic accounting techniques such the calculation of lost profits, a concurrent concern is to additionally include other qualitative variables that may be important to avoid misspecification of the value of the loss; elements of the fraud triangle and professional skepticism. Business interruption insurance is intended to restore the claimant, not reward them with excess reimbursement.

Keywords: Fraud, Professional Skepticism, Lost Profits

Suggested Citation:

DiGabriele, James A., Combining Elements of the Fraud Triangle and Professional Skepticism in the Valuation of Lost Profits (November 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1505765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1505765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Hashem Alshurafat , Mohannad Obeid Al Shbail , Allam Hamdan , Ahmad Al-Dmour , Waed Ensour
Factors affecting accounting students’ misuse of chatgpt: an application of the fraud triangle theory
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 274 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Halime KARACA , İbrahim AKSU
İSLAMİ FİNANS KURUMLARINDA İSLAMİ MUHASEBE VE İSLAMİ ADLİ MUHASEBE SÜRECİ
Dicle Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi , issue 35 , p. 26 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
574
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,550
RANK
109,232
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies