Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of Regulatory Prescriptions & Audit Standards on the Evolution of Forensic Accounting in the Audit Process

24 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2009

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: June 9, 2008

Abstract

The arrival of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbox), the subsequent formation of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and the implementation of the Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 (SAS 99) has presented the current auditing environment with a new paradigm that makes finding fraud a priority. A nationwide survey was conducted for a random sample of accounting academics, forensic accounting practitioners, and auditors regarding the addition of forensic accounting skills to the audit process. The results indicate that overall levels of agreement with the survey statements existed for all three groups, and whatever differences were found fell within the range of agreement.

Keywords: Auditing, Forensic Accounting, Fraud

Suggested Citation:

DiGabriele, James A., Implications of Regulatory Prescriptions & Audit Standards on the Evolution of Forensic Accounting in the Audit Process (June 9, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1505783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1505783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Forensic services, audits, and corporate governance: Bridging the gap
AICPA Discussion Memorandum Posted: 2004-07
Forensic Procedures and Specialists: Useful Tools & Techniques Posted: 2006
Crossref
The Auditor's Responsibility to Detect and Report Errors and Irregularities
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 53 Posted: 1988
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 82 Posted: 1997
Load more
2 Citations
Madan Lal Bhasin
Survey of Appropriate Skills Required by Forensic Accountants: Empirical Evidence from a Developing Economy
International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies, 1 (2) (2013) 53-73 · 21 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2015 · Downloads: 359
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dewan Azmal Hossain
Awareness Towards Forensic Accounting and What Non-Accounting Experts Need to Know
International Journal of Science and Business, 4(4), 128-143 · 16 Pages · Posted: 15 May 2020 · Last revised: 17 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 40
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
930
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,074
RANK
57,837
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Team Brainstorming, Fraud Risk Identification, and Fraud Risk Assessment: Implications of Sas No. 99

By Tina Carpenter

The Incremental Benefits of a Forensic Accounting Course on Skepticism and Fraud-Related Judgments

By Tina Carpenter, Cindy Durtschi, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies