Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Risk Modeling with Misreporting and Incomplete Information

International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 83-112, 2009

Posted: 2 Dec 2009

Agostino Capponi

Columbia University - Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research; Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Jaksa Cvitanic

California Institute of Technology - Division of the Humanities and Social Sciences

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2009

Abstract

We propose a structural model for the valuation of defaultable securities of a firm which models the effect of deliberate misreporting done by insiders in the firm and unobserved by others. We derive exact formulas for equity and bond prices and approximate expressions for the conditional default probability, recovery rate, and credit spread under the proposed credit risk framework. We propose a novel estimation approach to structural model estimation which accounts for noisy observed asset values. We apply the proposed method to calibrate a simple version of our model to the case of Parmalat and show that the model is able to recover a certain amount of misreporting during the years of accounting irregularities.

Keywords: Credit risk, incomplete information, calibration, nonlinear filtering, Parmalat, structural models

Suggested Citation:

Capponi, Agostino and Cvitanic, Jaksa, Credit Risk Modeling with Misreporting and Incomplete Information (March 1, 2009). International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 83-112, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1515444
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,366
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies