Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Management of Accounting Numbers: Case Study Evidence from the 'Crash' of an Airline

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 40, No. 1, 2009

78 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2009

Ann Jorissen

University of Antwerp - Department of Accounting & Finance

David Otley

Lancaster University

Abstract

Financial misrepresentation has usually been analysed by large-scale empirical research. However the generality gained from such an approach is at the cost of understanding the rich and complex nature of financial misrepresentation in real organizations. We adopt a case study approach to gain more insight into the incentives, embedded in contracts, which trigger decisions to engage in financial misrepresentation and the underlying elements of discretion in these processes. In particular, we examine whether contractual incentives should be considered as endogenous or exogenous and we take a more integrated and dynamic perspective than is typical.

Our findings demonstrate that in order to understand the decision processes of real managers it is necessary to distinguish between negotiable and non-negotiable contracts of the firm. Using a multi-theory perspective we observe that the direction of the causation assumed in the agency framework (i.e. contracts influence behaviour) is often reversed in case of negotiable contracts (i.e. managers influence contracts). The case findings also provide insights into a number of additional variables which enlarge the discretion of a senior manager to engage in financial misrepresentation. The manipulation of accounting numbers can be achieved by many mechanisms which traditional methods based on accruals would not detect. The use of a wider range of research methods is therefore desirable.

Keywords: earnings management, accounting choices, corporate governance, executive compensation

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M43, M45, M49, G33

Suggested Citation:

Jorissen, Ann and Otley, David T., The Management of Accounting Numbers: Case Study Evidence from the 'Crash' of an Airline. Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 40, No. 1, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1517023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
-Mc Kinsey Situation of SR/SN prepared for Sabena -7 November 1997 -Mc Kinsey Development and Evaluation of Strategic Options -catering -Sabena 26 august 1997 -ICARUS -consulting AG: Development and Evaluation of Strategic Options -cargo handling -26
Mc Kinsey Several reports on project Diamond, exclusively on the cost-benefit sharing model under project Diamond = AMP Posted: 1994-05-24
Report for the financing of Aircraft -Sabena -March 1999 -Crédit Lyonnais -Transportation Advisory Group Selecting the best strategy to value the state participation in Sabena -report for the Board of Directors of Sabena -November 1999 -Boston Consulting Group Project Nightfly : strategic perspective on shareholder negotiations Posted: 1999-12
Crossref
Blue Sky -several consulting reports prepared for Sabena -by the Boston Consulting Group Posted: 2000-03
Warburg Dillon Read -comments on financial guidelines of the SAirgroup -29 Posted: 1999-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,635
RANK
225,084
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies