Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robustness of Judicial Decisions to Valuation-Method Innovation: An Exploratory Empirical Study

Journal of Business, Finance, and Accounting, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2009 Last revised: 14 Dec 2009

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Kenton K. Yee

Independent

Yong Keun Yoo

Korea University Business School

Date Written: December 3, 2009

Abstract

In shareholder litigation, judges and litigants choose from a menu of valuation methods that is evolving over time. What drives demand for new valuation methods? Does valuation method choice affect a judge’s final appraisal? Is a judge more likely to favor the litigant whose valuation method coincides with the judge’s if the other litigant uses a different method? Using a comprehensive hand-collected sample of Delaware appraisal remedy shareholder litigation cases, we show that the distribution of judicial appraisal outcomes is insensitive to valuation methodology. Moreover, valuation method agreement between judge and plaintiff (or between judge and defendant) does not influence the judge’s appraisal. In this sense, judicial valuation is robust to innovations in valuation technology. However, we find that judicial valuation method choice is contextual. The method a judge chooses depends on the fundamental attributes of the firm as well as the quality of litigants’ proposed valuation estimates. We conclude that judges demand new valuation methods when the new methods are contextually more appropriate.

Keywords: judicial valuation, shareholder litigation, law and finance

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G38, K12, K22, K40, K41, M41, N20

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Yee, Kenton K. and Yoo, Yong Keun, Robustness of Judicial Decisions to Valuation-Method Innovation: An Exploratory Empirical Study (December 3, 2009). Journal of Business, Finance, and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1518109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R Barniv , M Myring
An International Analysis of Historical and Forecast Earnings in Accounting-based Valuation Models
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 33 , p. 1087 - 1109 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Beatty , S Riffe , R Thompson
The Method of Comparables and Tax Court Valuations of Private Firms: An Empirical Investigation
Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , p. 177 - 199 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Z Bodie , A Kane , A Marcus
Investments, 6 th Edition Posted: 2005
R A Brealey , S C Myers
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,663
RANK
337,747
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies