Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of the Sons of Gwalia Decision

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 8-17, June 2008

13 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2009

Cary Di Lernia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 1, 2008

Abstract

The question as to whether aggrieved shareholders should rank equally with creditors in cases of insolvency involving illegal or misleading conduct sits at the crossroads of both insolvency and securities law. Important questions arise at this juncture concerning the fairness, certainty, transparency and efficiency of the treatment of such claims when in competition with creditor claims. In Sons of Gwalia Ltd (admin apptd) v Margaretic [2007] HCA 1 the High Court allowed shareholders to rank equally with unsecured creditors in insolvency cases involving illegal or misleading behaviour, flying in the face of traditional perceptions of the distinction between debt and equity, and the primacy historically accorded to creditors upon insolvency. Whether the resulting legal position is a good fit with the Australian insolvency regime and general law is the subject of a current Corporations and Markets Advisory Committee review. This paper is concerned to illuminate the development of legal thought and precedent in this technical area before focussing on the judgments delivered by the High Court in Sons of Gwalia. The paper advocates legislative change via the abrogation of precedential authority preventing parity ranking of aggrieved shareholder claims to solidify the resulting legal order post Gwalia.

Keywords: Aggrieved shareholder claims, insolvency, Sons of Gwalia, Houldsworth

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G11

Suggested Citation:

Di Lernia, Cary, Implications of the Sons of Gwalia Decision (June 1, 2008). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 8-17, June 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1520814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Sons of Gwalia Ltd (admin apptd) v Margaretic (2007) 232 ALR 232; 60 ACSR 292
A Trounson
at p 54; Bartholomeusz S, 'High Court decision opens can of worms for handling large-scale insolvencies', The Age
Australian Financial Review , issue 8 Posted: 2007-02-01
Oakes V Turquand
Posted: 1867
Companies Act , volume 1862 , issue 7
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
609,870
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies