Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Use of Brainstorming in the Consideration of Fraud: Reports from the Field

The Accounting Review, Vol. 85, No. 4, pp. 1273-1301, July 2010

Posted: 14 Dec 2009 Last revised: 3 Jul 2010

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Tina Carpenter

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

J. Gregory Jenkins

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: December 10, 2009

Abstract

Audit standards require auditors to conduct fraud brainstorming sessions on every audit. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board has raised concerns about auditors’ fraud judgments and the quality of their brainstorming sessions. We develop a measure of brainstorming quality to examine how it affects auditors’ fraud decision-making processes. We test our measure using field survey data of auditors’ actual brainstorming sessions for 179 audit engagements. Respondents report considerable variation in the quality of brainstorming in practice. We find some evidence that high quality brainstorming improves the relations between fraud risk factors and fraud risk assessments. We also determine that brainstorming quality positively moderates the relations between fraud risk assessments and fraud-related testing. Our results suggest that the benefits of brainstorming do not apply uniformly, because low quality sessions likely incur the costs of such interactions without receiving the attendant benefits. By documenting best practices from high quality brainstorming sessions, our findings can inform auditors on how to improve their consideration of fraud.

Keywords: brainstorming quality, fraud, fraud risk assessments, fraud risk response

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Carpenter, Tina and Jenkins, J. Gregory, Auditors’ Use of Brainstorming in the Consideration of Fraud: Reports from the Field (December 10, 2009). The Accounting Review, Vol. 85, No. 4, pp. 1273-1301, July 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1521758
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,805
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies