Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fishbowl the Forensic Accountant: Are There Differences in the Views of the Relevant Skills of a Forensic Accountant Among Practitioners, Academics and Users of Forensic Accounting Services?

26 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2009

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: January 2, 2007

Abstract

This paper investigates through a survey study if there are differences in views of the relevant skills of a forensic accountant among forensic accounting practitioners, accounting academics and, users of forensic accounting services (attorneys were classified as the primary users of forensic accounting for this study). Currently, universities and colleges are considering adding forensic accounting courses to their curriculum or already have; this evolution has unearthed an absence regarding the significant skill set outcome that should be developed. The results of this study provide much needed guidance to further assist with the development of forensic accounting curriculum by identifying pertinent skills to accompany a program of study.

Keywords: forensic accountant, relevant skills, financial deception

Suggested Citation:

DiGabriele, James A., Fishbowl the Forensic Accountant: Are There Differences in the Views of the Relevant Skills of a Forensic Accountant Among Practitioners, Academics and Users of Forensic Accounting Services? (January 2, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1522488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1522488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Forensic services, audits, and corporate governance: Bridging the gap
AICPA Discussion Memorandum Posted: 2004-07
W S Albrecht
Fraud examination. Mason, Ohio: Thompson/South-Western Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2003
T W Berry , M E Merritt
A study of the abilities of accounting and Auditing professional in recognizing red flags of fraud
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 108 Posted: 2006
J G Bolgna , R J Linquist
Fraud auditing and forensic accounting Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Samuel F. Johnson-Rokosu
An Empirical Evaluation of Forensic Accounting Education in Nigeria Tertiary Institutions
117 Pages · Posted: 22 Sep 2015 · Last revised: 26 Nov 2016 · Downloads: 553
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu , Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye
Forensic Accounting and Audit Expectation Gap - The Perception of Accounting Academics
35 Pages · Posted: 2 Sep 2011 · Downloads: 2,844
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
997
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,208
RANK
52,565
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Forensic Accounting Education: A Survey of Academicians and Practitioners

By Zabihollah Rezaee, D. Larry Crumbley, ...

Perception of Forensic Accountants About Elaboration of Free Judicial Expertise in Brazil

By Idalberto José Das Neves Júnior, Anna Paula Sousa, ...

The Challenges of Public Sector Audit as an Effective Accountability Tool in PPP Arrangements in Nigeria

By Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu and Gloria Ogochukwu Okafor

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies