Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Have and to Hold: An Empirical Investigation of Preferences for Valuation Methods of Closely Held Companies in the Matrimonial Court

18 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2009

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: December 18, 2009

Abstract

This study investigates if preferences for valuation methods exist in the matrimonial courts. The results illustrate that there are systematic trends in court preferences for specific valuation methods in matrimonial court. The trends presented in the current study provide an empirical basis for litigants, attorneys and experts making decisions regarding which valuation method or methods to consider in matrimonial courts. Furthermore, individuals involved in selecting the valuation method or methods to be proposed to the court should focus on specific factors such as industry type and the specifics of the individual case in addition to current economic staples such as inflation.

Keywords: Matrimonial, Valuation, Court Preferences

Suggested Citation:

DiGabriele, James A., To Have and to Hold: An Empirical Investigation of Preferences for Valuation Methods of Closely Held Companies in the Matrimonial Court (December 18, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1525507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1525507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
J H Astrachan , M C Shanker
Family Businesses Contribution of the U.S. Economy: A Closer Look
Family Business Review Posted: 2003
Crossref
R P Beatty , S M Riffe , R Thompson
The method of comparables and tax court valuations of private firms: An empirical investigation. Accounting Horizons , volume 13 Posted: 1999-09
Crossref
C Bosland
Tax Valuation by Compromise. The Tax Law Review , volume 19 , p. 77 - 89 Posted: 1963
L J Cercone , Jr
Uniform standards for business valuations
The CPA Journal , volume 72 , issue 2 Posted: 2002
Load more
4 Citations
Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD
Harmonisation du Hayek et Posner: Posner, Hayek et l'Analyse Économique Du Droit (Harmonising Hayek and Posner: Posner, Hayek & the Economic Analysis of Law)
Analyzing the Relation ship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Foreign Direct Investment, IGI Global 2016 · 19 Pages · Posted: 23 Jun 2015 · Last revised: 14 Dec 2016 · Downloads: 40
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD
Harmonising Hayek and Posner: Revisiting Posner, Hayek & the Economic Analysis of Law
Analyzing the Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and Foreign Direct Investment, IGI Global Publications 2016 · 19 Pages · Posted: 7 Jun 2015 · Last revised: 22 May 2017 · Downloads: 112
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD
Decentralisation and the Evolution of Common Law
Modified, updated and finalized version appears Chapter publication in "Analyzing the Relationship Between Corporate Social Responsibility and Foreign Direct Investment" IGI Global 2016 · 12 Pages · Posted: 28 Jul 2015 · Last revised: 18 Apr 2016 · Downloads: 69
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
James A. DiGabriele
Gender Choices, Business Valuation, & State Specific Variables in the Division of Marital Assets
18 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2009 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
RANK
464,511
4 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies