Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Valuation Effects of the Organizational Form of Flow Through Entities

23 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2009

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: December 22, 2009

Abstract

A flow through entity is a legal form of entity choice where income is passed directly to the owners. Types of flow through entities are; general partnerships, limited partnerships, limited liability companies, master limited partnerships and S Corporations. Although, a common tax regime exists among S Corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, and master limited partnerships, prior literature has implied there should also be corresponding valuation parity among these entities. The literature is void in identifying a fact pattern of when a situation may arise that provides a distinction of such potential valuation differentials. This research intends fill that break in literature by investigating acquisition transactions of privately held flow through entities to determine which characteristics may moderate valuation differentials between these types of entities.

Keywords: Privately Held Company, S Corporation, Tax Partnership, Valuation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

DiGabriele, James A., The Moderating Valuation Effects of the Organizational Form of Flow Through Entities (December 22, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1525498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1525498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
H Aguinis
Regression Analysis for Categorical Moderators Posted: 2004
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
P A Allen
Understanding Regression Analysis Posted: 1997
B C Ayers , B Cloyd , J R Robinson
Organizational Form and Taxes: An Empirical Analysis of Small Business
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 22 , p. 49 - 67 Posted: 1996
Load more
1 Citations
Cost of Capital
, p. 663 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,577
RANK
278,438
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Taxes and the Relative Valuation of S Corporations and C Corporations

By Atulya Sarin and David J. Denis

Integrating Subchapters K and S-Just Do it

By Walter D. Schwidetzky

The Moderating Effects of Acquisition Premiums in Private Corporations: An Empirical Investigation of Relative S Corporation and C Corporation Valuations

By James A. Digabriele

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies