Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Quality of Auditing Services with the Help of Benford’s Law - An Empirical Analysis and Discussion of this Methodical Approach

25 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2010

Manuela Möller

University of Zurich - Institute for Accounting and Control

Date Written: April 24, 2009

Abstract

The so-called Benford’s Law describes regularity in the distribution of digits of randomly selected numbers, which states that the relative frequency of the leading digits reduces in a systematic manner from the digit 1 to the digit 9. This distribution hypothesis is being discussed in recent times as an audit instrument in order to gain insights into possible conscious and inadvertent errors in data records. The present paper analyses the closing accounts of 1,373 annual financial statements of companies listed on the German DAX and compares these with the Benford’s distribution hypothesis. It can be seen in the process that data pertaining to financial accounts, which have not been audited by the so-called “Big 4” audit firms, but by smaller external auditors, deviate to a significant extent from the regularity of Benford’s Law, which appears to make the use of Benford’s Law suitable as a benchmark to assess the quality of the audit.

Keywords: auditing, audit quality, Benford’s Law, digital numerical analysis, quality uncertainty

JEL Classification: C8, C12, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Möller, Manuela, Measuring the Quality of Auditing Services with the Help of Benford’s Law - An Empirical Analysis and Discussion of this Methodical Approach (April 24, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1529307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1529307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
F Benford
The Law of Anomalous Numbers
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society , volume 78 , p. 551 - 572 Posted: 1938
B Busta , R Weinberg
Using Benford's law and neural networks as a review procedure
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 356 - 366 Posted: 1998
Crossref
C A P N Carslaw
Anomalies in Income Numbers: Evidence of Goal Oriented Behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 321 - 327 Posted: 1988
L E Deangelo
Low Balling', and Disclosure Regulation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 127 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,885
RANK
125,978
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Delaware Incorporation and Earnings Management: An Empirical Analysis

By Pornsit Jiraporn and Kimberly C. Gleason

An Empirical Analysis of Corporate Takeover Defenses and Earnings Management: Evidence from the U.S.

By Pornsit Jiraporn

Who is Miss World in Cosmetic Earnings Management? An Analysis of Small Upward Rounding of Net Income Numbers Among 18 Countries

By Juha Kinnunen and Markku Koskela

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies