Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Auditing Deter Potentially Fraudulent Earnings Management? An Experimental Investigation

42 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2009 Last revised: 15 Dec 2010

Qiu Chen

University of Ottawa

Khim Kelly

University of Central Florida

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2010

Abstract

Effective audits are claimed to not only enhance the detection of fraud but also the deterrence of fraud in the first place. To focus on whether auditing has a deterrence effect separate from the detection effect, we design an experiment that isolates the deterrence effect from the detection effect. The experiment with 96 senior corporate managers features changes in audit procedures that would increase the likelihood of fraud being detected in the other divisions of the company but not in the focal manager’s division. Indeed, audit attention is reduced in the focal manager’s division due to a planned rotation in audit procedures that results in less substantive tests of details and more substantive analytical procedures in the focal manager’s division. We find that focal managers commit less potentially fraudulent earnings management in their own division when the nature of evidence collected changes towards increased probative value in the other managers’ divisions, but not when there is an increase in the extent of evidence collected employing the same audit tests. We also find that changing the nature of audit evidence collected results in more of a reduction in potentially fraudulent earnings management than the increased extent of audit evidence does, due to the auditor being perceived as more unpredictable under evidence nature changes than evidence extent changes. Overall our findings demonstrate that auditing has deterrence effects separate from an audit’s detection effects and that enhancements in deterrence are associated with the increased unpredictability of the audit procedures.

Keywords: fraud; deterrence; effective audits; types of audit procedures, cost allocation

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Qiu and Kelly, Khim and Salterio, Steven E., Does Auditing Deter Potentially Fraudulent Earnings Management? An Experimental Investigation (November 30, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1529807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1529807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
W S Albrecht , C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht , M Zimbelman
Fraud examination Posted: 2009
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
Performing audit procedures in response to assessed risks and evaluating the audit evidence obtained
Crossref
A statement of basic auditing concepts (ASOBAC) Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,800
RANK
142,252
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Using Electoral Cycles in Police Hiring to Estimate the Effect of Policeon Crime

By Steven D. Levitt

The Effect of Education on Crime: Evidence from Prison Inmates, Arrests, and Self-Reports

By Lance Lochner and Enrico Moretti

The Effect of Prison Population Size on Crime Rates: Evidence from Prison Overcrowding Litigation

By Steven D. Levitt

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies