Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing Speech to Detect Financial Misreporting

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2010 Last revised: 10 Oct 2011

Jessen L. Hobson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

William J. Mayew

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Date Written: October 9, 2011

Abstract

We examine whether vocal markers of cognitive dissonance are useful for detecting financial misreporting. We use speech samples of CEOs during earnings conference calls and generate vocal dissonance markers using automated vocal emotion analysis software. We begin by assessing construct validity for the software-generated dissonance markers by correlating them with four dissonance-from-misreporting proxies obtained in a laboratory setting. We find a positive association between these proxies and vocal dissonance markers generated by the software, suggesting the software’s dissonance markers have construct validity. Applying the software to CEO speech, we find that vocal dissonance markers are positively associated with the likelihood of irregularity restatements. The diagnostic accuracy levels are 11% better than chance and of similar magnitude to models based solely on financial accounting information. Moreover, the association between vocal dissonance markers and irregularity restatements holds even after controlling for financial accounting and linguistic based predictors. Our results provide new evidence on the role of vocal cues in detecting financial misreporting.

Keywords: Deception Detection, Misreporting, Linguistic Analysis, Vocal Analysis, Cognitive Dissonance

JEL Classification: D82, C91, C88, G29, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hobson, Jessen L. and Mayew, William J. and Venkatachalam, Mohan, Analyzing Speech to Detect Financial Misreporting (October 9, 2011). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1531871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
M E Barth , W H Beaver , J R M Hand , W R Landsman
Accruals, accounting-based valuation models, and the prediction of equity values
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 20 , p. 311 - 345 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP violation: Implications for assessing earnings manageement among firms with extreme financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
Crossref
P Boersma , D Weenink
Praat: Doing phonetics by computer (version 5.2.05)
C F Bond , B M Depaulo
Accuracy of deception judgments
Personality and Social Psychology Review , volume 10 , p. 214 - 234 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,788
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,559
RANK
22,206
14 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies