Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Like Moths Attracted to Flames: Managerial Hubris and Financial Reporting Fraud

CAAA Annual Conference 2010

57 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2010 Last revised: 19 Apr 2010

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Denis Cormier

University du Quebec a Montreal

Pascale Lapointe‐Antunes

Brock University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: January 5, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the governance, control and media patterns underlying financial reporting and asset misappropriation frauds. We argue that the fraud triangle framework (incentive, opportunity, rationalization) that underlies most prevention and detection practices provides a partial picture of the fraud landscape and does not pay enough attention to its dynamic nature. In our view, a missing ingredient is managerial hubris, fed by fawning media and financial market participants, which ignites and accelerates the fraud triangle. Hubris is characterized by exaggerated self-confidence, arrogance and oblivion to reality. Focusing on the population of financial frauds in Canadian publicly traded firms during the 1995-2005 period, we show that hubris, i.e., irrationality, may be a critical factor to understand corporate financial frauds. Our findings also suggest that fraud patterns may differ across countries, constrasting with the adoption of global auditing standards.

Keywords: financial reporting fraud, fraud triangle, governance, media, hubris, asset misappropriation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Magnan, Michel and Cormier, Denis and Lapointe-Antunes, Pascale, Like Moths Attracted to Flames: Managerial Hubris and Financial Reporting Fraud (January 5, 2010). CAAA Annual Conference 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1531786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1531786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
P Andre , S Khalil , M Magnan
Termination Fees in Mergers and Acquisitions: Protecting Investors or Managers?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 541 - 566 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T B Bell , S Szykowny , J J Willingham
Assessing the Likelihood of Fraudulent Reporting: A Cascaded Logical Approach
International Journal of Intelligent Systems in Accounting , volume 4 , p. 113 - 126 Posted: 1991
J R Boatsman , C Moeckel , B K W Pei
The Effects of Decision Consequences on Auditors' Reliance on Decision Aids in Audit Planning', Organizational Behaviour and Human Decision Processes , volume 71 , p. 211 - 247 Posted: 1997
R Brown , N Sarma
CEO Overconfidence, CEO Dominance and Corporate Acquisitions
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 59 , p. 358 - 379 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,900
RANK
202,123
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

CEO Overconfidence and Corporate Investment

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

CEO Overconfidence and Corporate Investment

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

Who Makes Acquisitions? CEO Overconfidence and the Market's Reaction

By Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey A. Tate

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies