Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Encouraging Professional Skepticism in the Industry Specialization Era

39 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2010 Last revised: 4 Aug 2015

Jonathan H. Grenier

Miami University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 31, 2015

Abstract

This paper provides theory and experimental evidence that, under common audit conditions, industry specialization inhibits some aspects of auditors’ professional skepticism. As auditors amass industry experience, they develop extensive knowledge of non-misstatement explanations for unusual financial statement fluctuations. This knowledge coupled with confidence in their ability to analyze audit evidence inhibits their inclination to be skeptical when there are no overt indicators of elevated misstatement risk. Although these conditions are, by definition, the conditions where misstatements are least likely, they are also the same conditions where the PCAOB has alleged pervasive insufficient professional skepticism and where well-concealed fraud is possible. These results pose an ethical dilemma for the PCAOB in terms of weighing its charge to protect the public interest against the fairness of its inspections to audit firms. Encouragingly, I also predict and find that audit firm efforts to promote professional skepticism are more effective for specialists as non-specialists are skeptical regardless of these efforts.

Keywords: professional skepticism, professional judgment, industry specialization, fraud, self-criticism

Suggested Citation:

Grenier, Jonathan H., Encouraging Professional Skepticism in the Industry Specialization Era (July 31, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1533622 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1533622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
C P Agoglia , C Beaudoin , G T Tsakumis
The effect of documentation structure and task-specific experience on auditors' ability to identify control weaknesses
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 21 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Aicpa
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
Statement of Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
S K Asare , A Wright
Design considerations for research on analytical procedures
International Journal of Auditing , volume 5 , p. 205 - 214 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S K Asare , A Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
18 Citations
Marietta Peytcheva
Professional Skepticism and Auditor Cognitive Performance in a Hypothesis Testing Task
40 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2013 · Downloads: 499
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Calvin Blackwell , Norman Maynard , James Malm , Mark Pyles , Marcia Snyder , Mark Witte
Who gets duped? The impact of education on fraud detection in an investment task
Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 734 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Kathryn Kadous , Justin Leiby , Mark E. Peecher
How Do Auditors Weight Informal Contrary Advice? The Joint Influence of Advisor Social Bond and Advice Justifiability
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 6 , p. 2061 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Jonathan H. Grenier , Brian J. Ballou , Seth Philip
Enhancing Perceived and Actual Audit Committee Effectiveness through Financial Expert Certification
Forthcoming - Current Issues in Auditing · 21 Pages · Posted: 17 Dec 2011 · Last revised: 31 Jul 2012 · Downloads: 192
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,025
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,202
RANK
50,596
18 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Do Strategic Reasoning and Brainstorming Help Auditors Change Their Standard Audit Procedures in Response to Fraud Risk?

By Vicky B. Hoffman and Mark F. Zimbelman

Auditors' Use of Brainstorming in the Consideration of Fraud: Evidence from the Field

By Joseph F. Brazel, Tina Carpenter, ...

The Influence of Documentation Specificity and Priming on Auditors' Fraud Risk Assessments and Evidence Evaluation Decisions

By Jacqueline S. Hammersley, E. Michael Bamber, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies