Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Reactions to Inconsistencies between Financial and Nonfinancial Measures

42 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2010 Last revised: 23 Oct 2012

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Keith L. Jones

University of Kansas

Douglas F. Prawitt

Brigham Young University

Date Written: August 8, 2012

Abstract

Nonfinancial measures (NFMs), such as employee headcount and production space, are operational measures that are not included on the face of the financial statements but are often disclosed elsewhere in the annual report or 10-K (e.g., in Management’s Discussion and Analysis). Professional standards, auditing texts, and prior research suggest that external auditors can use NFMs to verify their clients’ reported financial information and, in turn, improve audit quality. In an initial experiment where auditors were asked to develop an expectation for a client’s sales balance, they generally failed to identify a seeded inconsistency between the client’s sales and related NFMs. In a second experiment, we find that auditors are more likely to react to the inconsistency (i.e., rely more on inconsistent NFMs / develop expectations that reflect the client’s current year decline in NFMs) when they are specifically prompted to consider the implications of NFMs and fraud risk is high (vs. low). Our results suggest that (1) a minority of auditors use NFMs as a source of information for testing and do not increase their reliance on NFMs when the NFMs point to a fraud red flag; (2) the presence of high fraud risk alone is insufficient to increase auditor consideration of inconsistent NFMs; (3) auditors are able to react appropriately to an inconsistency if they are effectively prompted; and (4) even a prompt that explicitly highlights an inconsistency is unlikely to improve auditor performance unless the prompt is processed in a high fraud risk setting.

Keywords: analytical procedures, auditor, fraud, non-financial measures

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Jones, Keith Lamar and Prawitt, Douglas F., Auditors' Reactions to Inconsistencies between Financial and Nonfinancial Measures (August 8, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1534778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1534778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 56: Analytical Procedures Posted: 1988
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99: Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 2002
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 107: Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit Posted: 2007
A A Arens , R J Elder , M S Beasley
Auditing and Assurance Services: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,155
RANK
34,457
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Do Strategic Reasoning and Brainstorming Help Auditors Change Their Standard Audit Procedures in Response to Fraud Risk?

By Vicky B. Hoffman and Mark F. Zimbelman

Auditors' Use of Brainstorming in the Consideration of Fraud: Evidence from the Field

By Joseph F. Brazel, Tina Carpenter, ...

The Influence of Documentation Specificity and Priming on Auditors' Fraud Risk Assessments and Evidence Evaluation Decisions

By Jacqueline S. Hammersley, E. Michael Bamber, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies