Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonfinancial Measures and Fraud Risk: Evaluating Investors’ Reactions to Greater Transparency

54 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2010 Last revised: 4 Aug 2020

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Tina Carpenter

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Keith L. Jones

University of Kansas

Jane M. Thayer

Georgia Institute of Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 4, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether increased transparency in the comparison of financial measures and nonfinancial measures (NFMs) influences nonprofessional investors’ reactions to the risk of fraudulent financial reporting. We consider a comparison of key financial measures and NFMs to be transparent when the relevant information is presented in close proximity and formatted to provide an easy comparison of the individual measures. We manipulate the presence of an NFM red flag and the transparency of the comparison of financial measures and NFMs. We find that when the NFM red flag is present (i.e., higher fraud risk) and transparent, investors choose lower investment levels. However, without increased transparency, as is typical in the current reporting environment, we observe that investors are more likely to increase their investment levels in firms with elevated fraud risk. Additionally, we observe that the effect of transparency on investment levels is driven by investors with greater investing experience.

Keywords: fraud, investor, nonfinancial measures, red flag

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Carpenter, Tina and Jones, Keith Lamar and Thayer, Jane M., Nonfinancial Measures and Fraud Risk: Evaluating Investors’ Reactions to Greater Transparency (August 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1534888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1534888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J Cox , Q Dupont , J Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Crossref
B Ballou , D Heitger , C Landes
The future of corporate sustainability reporting
Journal of Accountancy , volume 202 , p. 65 - 74 Posted: 2006-12
B K Behn , R A Riley
Using nonfinancial information to predict financial performance: The case of the U.S. airline industry
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 56 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
650
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,191
RANK
93,094
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Using Nonfinancial Measures to Assess Fraud Risk

By Joseph F. Brazel, Keith L. Jones, ...

A Survey of Governance Disclosures Among U.S. Firms

By Lori Holder-webb, Jeffrey R. Cohen, ...

A Survey of Governance Disclosures Among U.S. Firms

By Lori Holder-webb, Jeffrey R. Cohen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies