Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Regulation and Management Discretion in a British Building Society, Circa 1960

44 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2010

Mark Billings

University of Nottingham

Bernardo Batiz-Lazo

Northumbria University

Date Written: January 10, 2010

Abstract

This article explores the manipulation of published financial reports in order to counter the potentially unfavourable impact of newly introduced regulation. In this case the reported capital ratio of a major building society was enhanced using a sale and leaseback transaction with a related party and a change in depreciation policy, methods which reflected limited alternatives. Analysis of the case is set in the context of the mid-term performance of the building society sector and addresses the questions of whether the manipulations involved were within then-prevailing generally accepted accounting principles and why, despite disclosure in the society’s financial statements, these failed to attract public comment or concern, regulatory action or an audit qualification. In examining a major British mutual financial organisation we depart from traditional analyses of managerial discretion in accounting choices in manufacturing, mining and transport companies prior to the watershed Companies Act 1948.

Keywords: Accounting manipulation, Creative accounting, Sale and leaseback, Depreciation, Building societies, United Kingdom

JEL Classification: N24, M42, D82

Suggested Citation:

Billings, Mark and Batiz-Lazo, Bernardo, Accounting Regulation and Management Discretion in a British Building Society, Circa 1960 (January 10, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1534167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1534167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Report of the Council Posted: 1959
Crossref
BSA Circulars:-664 (Evidence to the Radcliffe Committee Posted: 1958-07-03
Permanent Building Society Archives (Nationwide Building Society) , p. 1943 - 65
Crossref
Building Society Annual Returns (forms A.R. 11) to the Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies, series FS14, 1951-60: 466: Abbey National. 472: Alliance. 559: Co-operative Permanent , volume 607
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,893
RANK
588,270
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies