Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Misreporting and Executive Compensation: The Qui Tam Statute

53 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2010 Last revised: 26 Jul 2010

Sudarshan Jayaraman

Simon Business School, University of Rochester; University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Todd T. Milbourn

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - SMU Cox School of Business

Date Written: July 25, 2010

Abstract

A purported dark side to powerful equity-based incentives is that they may induce the manager to manipulate stock prices by distorting information. Recent theories predict that firms will grant more equity-based incentives to their managers when the detection of such information manipulation is more likely. We use the Qui Tam statute as an experimental setting to test this prediction. The Qui Tam statute gives whistle blowers in the healthcare industry large financial incentives to reveal corporate fraud, thus increasing the detection likelihood of information manipulation. Controlling for previously identified characteristics, we find that the extent of managerial equity-based incentives is around 9% higher in the healthcare industry than other industries. Further, as CFOs have the primary responsibility of the financial reporting process, we expect the effect of qui tam to be more pronounced for CFO incentives than for that of the other executives. Consistent with our prediction, we find that the healthcare industry’s effect on managerial incentives is the strongest for the CFO (13%), followed by the CEO (5%) and then by other executives. Using a difference-in-difference design, we find that the difference between CFO incentives and CEO incentives as well as the difference between CFO incentives and other executives’ incentives is larger in the healthcare industry than other industries. We also use the presence of a Big Five auditor as an alternate measure of the higher likelihood of detection of financial statement misrepresentation and find consistent evidence. Our collective evidence appears consistent with theories that predict that the detection likelihood of information manipulation affects the structure of executive compensation and in particular that of the CFO.

Keywords: CEO compensation, CFO compensation, accounting fraud, SOX, earnings management, financial reporting, equity incentives

JEL Classification: M46

Suggested Citation:

Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Milbourn, Todd T., Financial Misreporting and Executive Compensation: The Qui Tam Statute (July 25, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1550348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1550348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities, Working paper Posted: 2009
Crossref
W R Baber , S N Janakiraman , S H Kang
Investment Opportunities and the Structure of Executive Compensation
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 318 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Ray Ball , Sudarshan Jayaraman , Sudarshan Jayaraman , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Audited Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure as Complements: A Test of the Confirmation Hypothesis
Pages: 71 Posted: 17 Jun 2010 Last revised: 11 Nov 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
3 Citations
Brian Phiri Kampanje
Role of Institutional Shareholders in Malawi - Case Study for TNM Limited
33 Pages · Posted: 7 Mar 2012 · Downloads: 309
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sudarshan Jayaraman , Todd T. Milbourn
The Role of Stock Liquidity in Executive Compensation
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 2 , p. 537 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Jean Canil , Bruce Rosser
CEO incentive pay around performance declines
Managerial Finance , volume 44 , issue 8 , p. 1047 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,470
RANK
183,491
3 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies