Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Positive Reactions to Bad News Plausible? The Consideration of Fraud in Audit and Reporting Delays

41 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2010 Last revised: 28 Jun 2012

Andrew Yim

Bayes Business School, City, University of London

Date Written: June 28, 2012

Abstract

I formulate a model to emphasize the fraud detection role of auditors in the financial market and relate the role to audit and financial reporting delays. In the model, an auditor considers whether to perform extended audit procedures after observing a red flag generated from regular audit procedures. An audit delay is represented by the event of extending audit procedures and manifested as a financial reporting delay observed by the market. I derive a simple closed-form condition characterizing when a positive market reaction to a delay is possible. The condition provides a theoretical basis for formulating empirically testable hypotheses. I discuss why the fundamental logic behind the counter-intuitive positive-reaction result also applies to other contexts such as internal control weakness disclosure. Documented evidence in the literature suggests that “positive reactions to bad news” (PR2BN) is a general phenomenon. I also discuss other empirical implications of the model, with suggestions for regression equation specifications.

Keywords: Market reaction, audit delay, financial reporting lag, red flag, fraud detection, SAS 99

JEL Classification: M42, G32, K42

Suggested Citation:

Yim, Andrew, Are Positive Reactions to Bad News Plausible? The Consideration of Fraud in Audit and Reporting Delays (June 28, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1551414 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1551414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management Turnover and Governance Changes Following the Revelation of Fraud
Journal of Law & Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A W Alford , J J Jones , M E Zmijewski
Extensions and violations of the statutory SEC form 10-K filing requirements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 229 - 254 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R H Ashton , J J Willingham , R K Elliott
An Empirical Analysis of Audit Delay
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
724
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,012
RANK
81,003
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies