Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Tax Information Exchange Agreement: A Potent Weapon Against U.S. Tax Fraud?

Houston Business and Tax Law Journal, Vol. 4, p. 231, 2004

25 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2010

Beckett Cantley

Northeastern University

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

On October 2, 1996, after sixteen (16) years of negotiation, the U.S. signed a new tax treaty with Switzerland ("1996 Agreement"). The seventh and final category of eligible persons is a specific family foundation under Swiss law. In the fifth hypothetical, the taxpayer essentially undertakes the same transaction as in the previous two examples (examples 3 and 4), but the taxpayer does not keep records of receipts or expenses, and all the relevant information is told to authorities by an informant who specifically states that the individual told the informant that the taxpayer has been underreporting his or her income. More recently, however, money laundering and organized crime have subverted this underlying, noble purpose of Swiss banking secrecy. As a result, the new law appeases international pressure on Switzerland to relax its banking secrecy laws, eliminates conflicts currently existing in Swiss law concerning banking secrecy, and provides an increased deterrent to money laundering. However, with the renewed effort at information sharing between Switzerland and the U.S. stemming from the 2003 Agreement, it will be harder for terrorists or persons wishing to commit tax fraud to conduct their business in Switzerland because the Swiss are now not so willing to protect these people from the wrath of the U.S. ...

Suggested Citation:

Cantley, Beckett, The New Tax Information Exchange Agreement: A Potent Weapon Against U.S. Tax Fraud? (2004). Houston Business and Tax Law Journal, Vol. 4, p. 231, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1552948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
President Bush made a promise to the world that he would wage a war against terrorists and terrorism, not only to protect the American people but also to protect the interest and safety of the international community. See Ari Fleischer, White House Briefing
FED. NEWS SERV , volume 1 Posted: 2001-09-11
John C Henry , U S Rejects , Treaty
HOUS. CHRON , volume 1 Posted: 2001-12-14
David E Sanger
A Nation Challenged: The World Economy; Entangle with War on Terror, Threat of Global Recession
N.Y. TIMES Posted: 2001-11-01
The Investigative Project) (stating that the Islamic Fund for Palestine, a charitable, non-profit institution, with ties to al-Qaeda, was established in the United States and used bank accounts in Switzerland to house donated funds)
Progress Since 9/11: The Effectiveness of U.S. Anti-Terrorist Financing Efforts, Hearing Before the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the Committee on Financial Services U.S. House of Representatives, 108th Cong , volume 78 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,744
RANK
456,571
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies