Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud, Financial Regulation and Systemic Risk in Globalised Financial Markets: Redirecting the Focus onto the Nation State

Risk Management: An International Journal, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 17-26, 2010

12 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2010

Gary Jonas Fooks

Aston University; Aston University - School of Languages & Social Sciences

Date Written: March 2, 2010

Abstract

The case of Enron, and the long list of corporate collapses that followed in its wake, have uncovered a corporate America beset by deception, false accounting and bankruptcy. This paper is concerned with the limits to detecting corporate fraud through auditing. In particular, it attempts to explain these limits in terms of the historical development of the accounting profession, the legal context in which it operates, and the uneven nature of 'corporate colonisation' in US government and financial regulation. A key question here is whether the internationalisation of the world's capital markets, so often the cause of disabling financial disasters, helps us to make sense of this regulatory failure. The basic conclusion of the analysis is that it does not. On the contrary, the evidence presented here demonstrates that this crisis is rooted in a regulatory structure that was forged long before the present liberalisation of the world's capital markets.

Suggested Citation:

Fooks, Gary Jonas and Fooks, Gary Jonas, Fraud, Financial Regulation and Systemic Risk in Globalised Financial Markets: Redirecting the Focus onto the Nation State (March 2, 2010). Risk Management: An International Journal, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 17-26, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1562468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
W Bello , K Malhotra , N Bullard , M Mezzera
Notes on the Ascendancy and Regulation of Speculative Capital
Global Finance: New Thinking on Regulating Speculative Capital Markets Posted: 2000
C Bloggs
The End of Politics: Corporate Power and the Decline of the Public Sphere Posted: 2000
William Wilson Bratton
Enron and the Dark Side of Shareholder Value
Tulane Law Review, May 2002, Forthcoming Pages: 79 Posted: 2 Mar 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Coffee
The Acquiescent Gatekeeper: Reputational Intermediaries, Auditor Independence and the Governance of Accounting. Columbia Law School Center for Law and Economic Studies Working Paper No Posted: 0191
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,783
RANK
276,216
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Understanding Enron: It's About the Gatekeepers, Stupid

By John C. Coffee

Enron and the Dark Side of Shareholder Value

By William W. Bratton

Board Models in Europe - Recent Developments of Internal Corporate Governance Structures in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, and Italy

By Klaus J. Hopt and Patrick C. Leyens

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies