Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Stock-Based Compensation: A Case Study in Valuing Employee Stock Options and Restricted Stock Issues in a Breach of Contract Case

17 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2010

Dwight Steward

EmployStats - Economists and Statisticians

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

In this case study, the former CEO of a large telecommunication company filed a lawsuit against her former employer that alleged that the company’s contract breach resulted in the loss ESO grants and diminished the value of the vested ESOs that she held at the time of the alleged contract breach. The former company executive also alleges that the breach prevented her from receiving restricted company stock shares that she believes she was entitled to under her contract with the employer. In this paper, I present an application of the Shapiro and O’Connor (2001) modified Black-Scholes (B-S) and the Hull-White (2002) binomial lattice tree employee stock option (ESO) valuation models to the valuation of breach of employment contract damages. In addition to ESO valuation, this paper also illustrates the valuation of restricted company stock issues and provides a discussion of the approaches used to account for the unique valuation related issues that arise in litigation. The case study illustrates the importance of incorporating case specific factors, such as the plaintiff's historical ESO exercise rates and firm specific ESO forfeiture probabilities, into the valuation models.

Keywords: Employee Stock Options, Hull White, Stock Option Pricing, Black Scholes, Breach of Employment Contract

JEL Classification: M52, J33, K00

Suggested Citation:

Steward, Dwight, Executive Stock-Based Compensation: A Case Study in Valuing Employee Stock Options and Restricted Stock Issues in a Breach of Contract Case (March 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1562017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1562017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
David Aboody
Market Valuation of Employee Stock Options
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 22 , p. 357 - 391 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Les Barenbaum , Walt Schubert , Bonnie O&apos; Rourke
Valuing Employee Stock Options Using a Lattice Model
n. pag. New york State Society of CPAa. Web Posted: 2004-12-10
Peter Brous
Estimating Damages Associated with Stock Option Compensation in Wrongful Termination Lawsuits
Journal of Forensic Economics , volume 15 , p. 269 - 283 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Jennifer Carpenter
The Exercise and Valuation of Executive Stock Options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 48 , p. 127 - 158 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,673
RANK
187,924
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies