Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information Inconsistencies and Their Effects on Insolvency Prediction Models

23 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2010

Ricardo Lopes Cardoso

Brazilian School of Public and Business Administration; Rio de Janeiro State Univ., FAF

Alexandre Mendes

Université Paris VI Pierre et Marie Curie - Center for Interdisciplinary Research in Biology (CIRB)

Poueri do Carmo Mário

FACE/UFMG

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Felipe Ramos Ferreira

EBAPE/FGV

Date Written: March 8, 2010

Abstract

Many studies have shown that avoiding political costs is an incentive for firms to manipulate accounting information, e.g., McNichols and Wilson, 1988; Jones, 1991; Kato et al., 2001. The majority of them use discretionary accruals models as proxies to manipulation. This paper introduces a new variable (DIF) that measures data inconsistencies present in financial reports, replacing discretionary accruals in the detection of manipulation. Accounting information was collected from 2,033 Brazilian health maintenance organizations (HMOs). This information was then processed and financial ratios derived from insolvency prediction models and thresholds established by the regulatory agency were taken as attributes to differentiate solvent HMOs from insolvents. During this data processing, inconsistencies were identified and instead of being removed, were used to determine the value of the attribute DIF. Processed data was then analysed using data mining techniques and a series of classifiers were created. The classifiers found have high accuracy in terms of discriminating distressed companies, especially when the DIF variable is used. In addition, the attributes selected and the structure of the classifiers can be supported by traditional models of analysis based on financial ratios. Results are relevant for those who are interested in assessing firms’ insolvency risk, because data inconsistencies may signal firms’ performance, therefore shall not be removed from analysis.

Keywords: insolvency, inconsistency, earnings management, health maintenance organization

JEL Classification: M41, G33, G22, C81

Suggested Citation:

Cardoso, Ricardo Lopes and Mendes, Alexandre and Mário, Poueri do Carmo and Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Ferreira, Felipe Ramos, Accounting Information Inconsistencies and Their Effects on Insolvency Prediction Models (March 8, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1567754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1567754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Learning
Posted: 1993
S Roychowdhury
Management of earnings through the manipulation of real activities that affect cash flow from operations. Working paper, Sloan School of Management Posted: 2003-10
S Roychowdhury
Earnings management through real activities manipulations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 335 - 370 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K Schipper
Witten IH, Frank E. Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques. 2 nd ed
Commentary on earnings management. Accounting Horizons , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 91 - 102 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
354
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,959
RANK
193,307
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies