Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Application of Benford's Law in Forensic Accounting: An Analysis of Credit Bureau Data

25 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2010

Syed Azfar Hussain

Greenwich University Karachi

Date Written: June 18, 2010

Abstract

The purpose of this research is to analyze the credit bureau data of a commercial bank to detect any possible data errors, irregularities, or fraud. The field of Forensic Accounting is gaining prominence in today’s complex business world. The use of Forensic accounting techniques, in conjunction with the understanding of various investigative methods, will improve forensic accountants, auditors and investigation officers’ ability to examine and to take legal action against those involved in fraud, embezzlement other corrupt criminal acts. Forensic Accountants, Investigative Accountants and Auditors have applied Benford’s Law as a tool and technique in determining misappropriations and frauds.

This research contains a sample of 35,379 records of borrowers with a filtered sample of 10,034 from the credit bureau of a leading commercial bank. First, Second, Third and Fourth digits tests of the Benford’s Law are carried out. Chi square is applied to determine the significance of the model. As chi square statistics is significant for 1st, 3rd and 4th digits of sample, it is concluded that there are some irregularities in the bureau data.

Keywords: Benford’s Law, Forensic Accounting, Credit Bureau, Chi Square

Suggested Citation:

Hussain, Syed Azfar, The Application of Benford's Law in Forensic Accounting: An Analysis of Credit Bureau Data (June 18, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1626696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1626696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
C Albrecht , U Albrecht
Strategic Fraud Detection: A TechnologyBased Model Posted: 2004
• Becker
Patterns in Listings of Failure-Rate and MTTF Values and Listings of Other Data
IEEE Transactions on Reliability , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 18 - 9529 Posted: 1982
Crossref
• Benford , Frank
The law of anomalous numbers
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society , volume 78 , p. 551 - 572 Posted: 1938
• Bhattacharya , S Busta , B , R Weinberg
Using Benford's Law and neural networks as a review procedure
From Kautilya to Benford -Trends in Forensic and Investigative Accounting. 9th World Congress of Accounting Historians , volume 13 , p. 356 - 366 Posted: 1998
Load more
1 Citations
Vadim S. Balashov , Yuxing Yan , Xiaodi Zhu
Using the Newcomb–Benford law to study the association between a country’s COVID-19 reporting accuracy and its development
Scientific Reports , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,056
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,080
RANK
48,476
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Data Collection & Data Estimation Methodology eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies