Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Executives and Audit Fees

13 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2010

Yun-Chia Yan

University of New Orleans

Clark M. Wheatley

Florida International University

Date Written: February 2, 2010

Abstract

The role of Chief Executive Officers [CEOs] and Chief Financial Officers [CFOs] in the financial reporting process has come under heightened scrutiny in recent years, such that SOX requires individual executives to certify the accuracy of their financial reports and the quality of their internal controls. Prior research has shown that the appointment of new executives is associated with higher levels of earnings management. We examine the association between firms hiring new CEOs or CFOs and audit fees, to determine if there is an audit fee premium associated with new CEOs (CFOs). Our results indicate that the presence of a new CEO (CFO) is associated with an audit fee premium of 10.5 (9.4) percent. This suggests that auditors are cognizant of, and price, the potential impact of new executives on financial reporting. We are not able, however, to identify the specific bases of the higher fees – greater audit effort or an increased risk premium.

Keywords: audit fees, chief financial officer, chief executive, CFO, CEO

JEL Classification: G19, M41

Suggested Citation:

Yan, Yun-Chia and Wheatley, Clark M., New Executives and Audit Fees (February 2, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1626205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1626205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
J Aier , J Comprix , M Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005-09
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003-07
Crossref
S Ayers , S Kaplan
Potential differences between engagement and risk review partners and their effect on client acceptance judgments
Accounting Horizons , p. 139 - 153 Posted: 1998-06
P Beaulieu
The effects of judgments of new clients' integrity upon risk judgments, audit evidence, and fees
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , p. 85 - 99 Posted: 2001-03
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,838
RANK
177,110
2 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies