Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Auditing United Again: A Historical Perspective

Journal of Business Issues, No. 2, pp. 15-25, 2006

12 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2010

O. Ronald Gray

Independent

Stephanie D. Moussalli

University of Mississippi-Patterson School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

This paper is a historical review and commentary on the relationship of forensic accounting and auditing. In the early years of the accounting profession, when fraud discovery was acknowledged as being one of the principal objectives of the financial audit, forensic accounting was an integral part of mainstream accounting. During subsequent decades as the accounting profession attempted to distance itself from fraud discovery responsibilities, forensic accounting became identified as a specialized subset of the profession. Now, on the heels of many embarrassing corporate failures and passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, forensic accounting is being reunited with the profession. Fraud discovery is again acknowledged as one of the principal responsibilities of the auditor and the tools of the forensic accountant are now being rediscovered.

Keywords: auditing, forensic accounting, history of accounting, fraud detection, Sarbanes-Oxley

Suggested Citation:

Gray, O. Ronald and Moussalli, Stephanie D., Forensic Accounting and Auditing United Again: A Historical Perspective (2006). Journal of Business Issues, No. 2, pp. 15-25, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1642100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Discussion Memorandum: Forensic Services, Audits and Corporate Governance -Bridging the Gap. American Institute of Certified Publiv Accountants
AICPA Forensic and Litigation Services Committee Posted: 2004-08-16
W Albrecht , Conan C Steve , Chad O Albrecht , Albrecht
Fraud Examination, 2 nd ed Posted: 2006
Conan C Albrecht , W Steve Albrecht , &amp; J Gregory Dunn
Can Auditors Detect Fraud: A Review of the Research Evidence
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 2 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2001
Anonymous
E&Y Fraud Practice Goes Global
International Accounting Bulletin Posted: 2006-04-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,566
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,791
RANK
12,418
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies