Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
One Hundred Years of Disappointed Expectations: A Quantitative Content Analysis of the Auditor's Responsibility to Discover Fraud Traced Through Montgomery's Auditing, 1912-1998

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, 2011

43 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2010 Last revised: 3 Aug 2012

Stephanie D. Moussalli

University of Mississippi-Patterson School of Accountancy

O. Ronald Gray

Independent

Gokhan Karahan

University of Alaska Anchorage - College of Business & Public Policy

Date Written: September 01, 2011

Abstract

We use the authoritative Montgomery’s Auditing reference series from 1912 to 1998 as a proxy for the U.S. auditing profession’s stance towards fraud detection as an audit goal and its attention to the implementation of this goal. A quantitative content analysis of the editions finds that the amount of text expressing a position on the auditor’s fraud detection responsibility, whether affirmative, negative, or ambivalent, was very high in the early 20th century, low from 1916-1975, and high in the last decades. In contrast, text explaining how to detect fraud lagged the three positions variables (affirmation, denial, ambivalence). How-to text was voluminous until mid-century, plummeted after 1949, and stayed low thereafter despite the appearance of new standards acknowledging fraud detection as a goal and despite the series’ stated support of the new standards.

Keywords: fraud, fraud detection, auditing, auditing history, Montgomery, U.S. auditing history, audit techniques

JEL Classification: N82, N22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Moussalli, Stephanie D. and Gray, O. Ronald and Karahan, Gokhan, One Hundred Years of Disappointed Expectations: A Quantitative Content Analysis of the Auditor's Responsibility to Discover Fraud Traced Through Montgomery's Auditing, 1912-1998 (September 01, 2011). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1680902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1680902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
L R Dicksee
Auditing: a practical manual for auditors Posted: 1905
R H Montgomery
Auditing Theory and Practice Posted: 1912
R H Montgomery
Auditing: Theory and Practice Posted: 1916
R H Montgomery
Auditing Theory and Practice , volume 1 Posted: 1921
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,063
RANK
303,587
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Fees: A Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Supply and Demand Attributes

By David Hay, Warren Robert Knechel, ...

Litigation Risk and Audit Fees: Evidence from UK Firms Cross-Listed on U.S. Exchanges

By Ananth Seetharaman, Ferdinand A. Gul, ...

The Contribution of Internal Audit as a Determinant of External Audit Fees and Factors Influencing this Contribution

By William L. Felix, Audrey A. Gramling, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies