Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short Interest as a Signal of Audit Risk

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 28, No. 4, Winter 2011

39 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2010 Last revised: 1 Nov 2011

Cory A. Cassell

University of Arkansas

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Stephanie J. Rasmussen

University of Texas at Arlington

Date Written: April 14, 2011

Abstract

Motivated by evidence from the empirical accounting and finance literatures suggesting that short sellers target firms with suspect financial reporting, we investigate whether short interest provides a signal of the degree of audit risk. We find a positive association between audit fees and short interest (total shares sold short scaled by total shares outstanding) after controlling for other determinants of audit fees. This finding suggests that short interest is an indicator of audit risk that reflects information not captured by traditional client risk measures. We also find an increase in the magnitude of the association between audit fees and short interest after events in the early 2000s (corporate scandals, the collapse of Arthur Andersen, and the implementation of new auditing standards) which increased auditors’ responsibilities to deter fraud and made the implications of fraud particularly salient to external auditors. Our findings are important because they suggest that auditors’ sensitivity to client risk information increased post-2002, indicating that efforts by regulators and standard setters (e.g., the PCAOB and the AICPA) to increase auditors’ attention to risk have been successful.

Keywords: Auditors, Audit Fees, Fraud Risks, Short Sellers, SAS 99

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Cassell, Cory A. and Drake, Michael S. and Rasmussen, Stephanie J., Short Interest as a Signal of Audit Risk (April 14, 2011). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 28, No. 4, Winter 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1695996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
F Akbas , E Boehmer , B Erturk , S Sorescu
Why do short levels predict stock returns? Working paper Posted: 2008
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit, Statement on Auditing Standards No. 82 Posted: 1997
AICPA)
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit, Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Yingwen Deng , Ole-Kristian Hope , Cyndia Wang , Min Zhang
Capital-Market Liberalization and Auditors' Accounting Adjustments: Evidence from a Quasi-Experiment
64 Pages · Posted: 31 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 14 May 2021 · Downloads: 543
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Franklin Allen , Marlene Haas , Eric Nowak , Matteo Pirovano , Angel Tengulov
Squeezing Shorts Through Social Media Platforms
Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 21-31 · 103 Pages · Posted: 12 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 15 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 2,650
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ying Huang
The Association between Audit Office Team Diversity and Audit Quality
55 Pages · Posted: 14 May 2021 · Downloads: 542
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mei Feng , Chan Li , Ting Luo
Do Auditors Learn from Stock Prices of Their Clients? Evidence from Audit Adjustments of Pre-audited Earnings
52 Pages · Posted: 7 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,629
RANK
88,637
7 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Short Sale Constraints and Stock Returns

By Charles M. Jones and Owen A. Lamont

Short Sale Constraints and Stock Returns

By Charles M. Jones and Owen A. Lamont

Breadth of Ownership and Stock Returns

By Joseph Chen, Harrison G. Hong, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies