Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2011 Last revised: 17 Jun 2011

Simi Kedia

Rutgers Business School

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 28, 2011

Abstract

Recent frauds have questioned the efficacy of the SEC’s enforcement program. We hypothesize that differences in firms’ information sets about SEC enforcement and constraints facing the SEC affect firms’ proclivity to adopt aggressive accounting practices. We find that firms located closer to the SEC and in areas with greater past SEC enforcement activity, both proxies for firms’ information about SEC enforcement, are less likely to restate their financial statements. Consistent with the resource-constrained SEC view, the SEC is more likely to investigate firms located closer to its offices. Our results suggest that regulation is most effective when it is local.

Suggested Citation:

Kedia, Simi and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct? (January 28, 2011). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1750371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Anup Agrawal , Tommy Cooper
Insider Trading Before Accounting Scandals
Forthcoming, Journal of Corporate Finance, 2015 Pages: 57 Posted: 16 Apr 2008 Last revised: 2 Sep 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anup Agrawal , Tommy Cooper
Corporate Governance Consequences of Accounting Scandals: Evidence from Top Management, CFO and Auditor Turnover
Quarterly Journal of Finance, 2016, Forthcoming Pages: 48 Posted: 5 Mar 2008 Last revised: 16 Sep 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Audretsch
Managing knowledge spillovers: The role of geographical proximity in Advances in Strategic Management , volume 20 , p. 23 - 48 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,510
RANK
59,460
144 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Internal Audit Quality and Earnings Management

By Douglas F. Prawitt, Jason L. Smith, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies