Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Equity-Based Compensation Really Have a 'Dark Side'? The Influence of Regulatory Discretion

Fifth Singapore International Conference on Finance 2011

53 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2011 Last revised: 14 May 2012

Michael F. Ferguson

University of Cincinnati - Department of Finance - Real Estate

Buhui Qiu

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Weihong Song

Independent

Date Written: May 2012

Abstract

Using a recent sample of firms subject to SEC litigations for fraud and employing a detection-controlled estimation technique, we find that equity-based executive compensation (EBC) is positively related to both the probability of fraud commission and the probability of being prosecuted by the SEC. Moreover, EBC usage significantly decreased post Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), but only in high-growth industries. Finally, post SOX, fraud commission dramatically declined by 60-70%, and this appears to be driven by the increased fraud penalties in SOX. These empirical results highlight the influence of potential regulatory discretion on fraud commission, fraud detection, and the usage of EBC.

Keywords: Equity-Based Compensation, Regulatory Discretion, Fraud, Sarbanes-Oxley

JEL Classification: G38, J33

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Michael F. and Qiu, Buhui and Song, Weihong, Does Equity-Based Compensation Really Have a 'Dark Side'? The Influence of Regulatory Discretion (May 2012). Fifth Singapore International Conference on Finance 2011 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1752423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1752423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Performance incentives within firms: The effect of managerial responsibility
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1613 - 1649 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A K Agrawal
Corporate governance objectives of labor union shareholders: Evidence from proxy voting
Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2011
Crossref
R M Alvarez , G Glasgow
Two-stage estimation of non-recursive choice variables
Political Analysis , volume 8 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Buhui Qiu , Steve L. Slezak
The Equilibrium Relationships between Performance-Based Pay, Performance, and the Commission and Detection of Fraudulent Misreporting
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 325 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,384
RANK
285,293
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies