Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review and Model of Auditor Judgments in Fraud-Related Planning Tasks

A Journal of Practice and Theory, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2011 Last revised: 20 Jun 2011

Jacqueline S. Hammersley

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Date Written: June 2011

Abstract

In this paper, I develop a model that describes auditor and fraud risk factor characteristics that I expect to affect auditor performance in fraud-related planning tasks (i.e., fraud hypothesis generation, risk assessment, and audit program modification). I expect that auditor knowledge, especially fraud knowledge, will significantly affect auditor performance in audit program modification tasks through its effects on fraud risk factor identification and hypothesis generation. Further, due to fraud’s rarity, I expect that this knowledge is acquired primarily through indirect experience such as training rather than from direct experience and is enhanced when auditors have better problem solving skills and higher epistemic motivation. This is a significant departure from knowledge acquisition in other audit settings and there is currently no evidence in the literature examining these relationships. I also propose that the diagnosticity of fraud risk factors and specifically, the degree to which they support generation of specific testable fraud hypotheses, affects auditors’ ability to plan effective changes to audit programs. Finally, I review and summarize the extant fraud-related audit planning literature and identify opportunities for future research.

Keywords: Fraud, Risk Assessment, Hypothesis Generation, Audit Planning

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hammersley, Jacqueline S., A Review and Model of Auditor Judgments in Fraud-Related Planning Tasks (June 2011). A Journal of Practice and Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1758097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1758097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to the U.S. Department of the Treasury
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession Posted: 2008
AICPA)
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
B Apostolou , J M Hassell , S A Webber
The relative importance of management fraud risk factors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 13 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S K Asare , A M Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
996
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,730
RANK
52,639
19 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Do Strategic Reasoning and Brainstorming Help Auditors Change Their Standard Audit Procedures in Response to Fraud Risk?

By Vicky B. Hoffman and Mark F. Zimbelman

Auditors' Use of Brainstorming in the Consideration of Fraud: Evidence from the Field

By Joseph F. Brazel, Tina Carpenter, ...

The Influence of Documentation Specificity and Priming on Auditors' Fraud Risk Assessments and Evidence Evaluation Decisions

By Jacqueline S. Hammersley, E. Michael Bamber, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies