Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Illuminating the Limits of Auditor Accountability for Fraud Detection Through a Historical Study of Internal Control Evaluation

Journal of Business, Industry and Economics, Volume 17, Spring 2012

19 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2011 Last revised: 3 Aug 2012

Stephanie D. Moussalli

University of Mississippi-Patterson School of Accountancy

O. Ronald Gray

Independent

Gokhan Karahan

University of Alaska Anchorage - College of Business & Public Policy

Date Written: June 6, 2011

Abstract

Messner (2009) and Roberts (2009) argue that there are limits of accountability and transparency for accountants. We study the 20th-century development of independent auditors’ evaluation of internal controls as a U.S. example of attempted limits on auditors’ fraud detection responsibilities. While internal controls provide market value, their evaluation during an audit has value largely to auditors themselves, who shift some of the costs of the audit and much of the responsibility for fraud detection to management. A content analysis of the Montgomery’s Auditing series from 1912 to 1998 demonstrates that the percent of text devoted to both internal control techniques and their evaluation was a positive function of time, while the attention given to fraud detection techniques moved in the opposite direction. Our data do not support the literature that explains internal controls evaluation by auditors as an efficiency measure or reaction to competitive price pressures.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Auditing, Montgomery's Auditing, Auditor Accountability, History of Auditing, Fraud Detection

JEL Classification: K22, L84, M40, M41, M49, N22, N42

Suggested Citation:

Moussalli, Stephanie D. and Gray, O. Ronald and Karahan, Gokhan, Illuminating the Limits of Auditor Accountability for Fraud Detection Through a Historical Study of Internal Control Evaluation (June 6, 2011). Journal of Business, Industry and Economics, Volume 17, Spring 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1760542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1760542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
L R Dicksee
Auditing: a Practical Manual for Posted: 1905
R H Montgomery
Auditing Theory and Practice Posted: 1912
R H Montgomery
Auditing: Theory and Practice Posted: 1916
R H Montgomery
Auditing Theory and Practice , volume 1 Posted: 1921
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
479
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,367
RANK
136,540
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Determinants of Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Accruals Quality and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Internal Control Weakness and Cost of Equity: Evidence from Sox Section 404 Disclosures

By Maria Ogneva, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies