Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Strictness of Consultation Requirements on Fraud Consultation

Accounting Review, Vol. 87, No. 3, May 2012

Posted: 6 Mar 2011 Last revised: 22 Aug 2014

Anna Gold

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Philip Wallage

VU University Amsterdam; University of Amsterdam - Business School

Date Written: November 24, 2011

Abstract

We investigate how the strictness of a requirement to consult on potential client fraud affects auditors' propensity to consult with firm experts. We consider two specific forms of guidance about fraud consultations: (1) strict, i.e., mandatory and binding; and (2) lenient, i.e., advisory and non-binding. We predict that a strict consultation requirement will lead to greater propensity to consult, particularly under certain client- and engagement-related conditions. Results from two experiments with 163 Dutch audit managers and partners demonstrate that consultation propensity is higher under a strict consultation requirement, but only when underlying fraud risk is high. The strictness effect is also greater under tight versus relaxed time pressure. Further, a strict standard increases auditors' perceived probability that a fraud indicator exists. Overall, we demonstrate that the formulation of a standard can have the desired effect on the judgments of auditors while also creating unexpected incentives that may influence auditor judgments.

Keywords: audit standards, consultation requirement, consultation propensity, deadline pressure, fraud, fraud risk

JEL Classification: C91, G38, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gold, Anna and Knechel, Warren Robert and Wallage, Philip, The Effect of the Strictness of Consultation Requirements on Fraud Consultation (November 24, 2011). Accounting Review, Vol. 87, No. 3, May 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1777041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1777041
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,635
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies