Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting in Developing Economies Problems and Prospects

University Advanced Research Journal, No. 1, July-September 2009

15 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 2009

Abstract

Recent cases of financial scandals particularly in the banking and insurance industry in developing economies require more professionalism in the field of accounting and finance, thus the need for forensic accounting for litigation support services and investigative functions. Therefore, the objective of this paper was to examine the concept of forensic accounting and its prospects and problems in developing economies. It was however gathered that forensic accounting is a new trend, which is yet to gain ground in developing economies, hence accountants lack the technical know-how on forensic issues. This results to lack of adequate knowledge on the subject matter. In order to enhance its development, some possible remedies were advanced. The paper therefore concluded that if forensic accounting must become a "household name" in business, its prospects must be harnessed while the challenges must be brought to bear.

Keywords: forensic accounting

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Forensic Accounting in Developing Economies Problems and Prospects (July 2009). University Advanced Research Journal, No. 1, July-September 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1789123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
K M Ansari
Corruption and Forensic Accounting
Ohio CPA Journal Posted: 2005-09
G J Bologna , R I Lindquist
Fraud Auditing an Forensic Accounting-New Tools and Techniques Posted: 1987
L D Crumbley
Forensic Accounting Older Than You Think"
Journal of Forensic Accounting Posted: 2001
R K Elliot , J J Willingham
Management Fraud-Detection and Deterrence Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,303
RANK
12,498
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Relevance of Forensic Accounting to Financial Crimes in Private and Public Sectors of Third World Economies: A Study from Nigeria

By Abubakar Kasum

The Role of Forensic Accounting in Fraud Investigation and Litigation Support

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

An Empirical Investigation of the Relevant Skills of Forensic Accountants in Nigeria

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye and Jugu Yohanna G.

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies