Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Forensic Accounting Examination of Financial Reporting Fraud at the Segment Level

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Mar 2011

Dana Hollie

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Curtis Nicholls

Bucknell University

Shaokun Carol Yu

Northern Illinois University

Date Written: January 28, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to assess various financial reporting frauds that occurred at the segment-level. This study describes firm characteristics, the types of fraudulent activities, some of the financial effects, as well as the perpetrator of the fraud. Although one of the primary objectives of segment reporting is to increase the transparency of the firm, most of the emphasis in financial reporting is at the consolidated level. As the analysis here suggests, a more thorough examination of the segment level may uncover fraudulent transactions in a timelier manner. The data suggests that firms with significant bill and hold transactions may be more at risk for fraud at the segment level. We find that during the fraud period our sample firms appear to be performing better on average than comparable firms. This is not to say all above-average performing firms are committing fraud, but rather suggesting it could be one of many indicators that fraud may be occurring. These are possible fraud indicators that could be explored in future segment fraud research.

Keywords: segment reporting, fraud, forensic accounting, segment fraud

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hollie, Dana and Nicholls, Curtis and Yu, Shaokun Carol, A Forensic Accounting Examination of Financial Reporting Fraud at the Segment Level (January 28, 2011). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1794170
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies