Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of the Relevant Skills of Forensic Accountants in Nigeria

Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. 1, No. 2, 2010

17 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Jugu Yohanna G.

University of Jos

Date Written: March 28, 2011

Abstract

The researchers investigated whether views of the relevant skills of forensic accountants differ among forensic accounting practitioners, accounting academics, and users of forensic accounting services. It is high time for universities and other tertiary institutions that offer accountancy as a discipline to start considering adding forensic accounting courses to their curriculum. To achieve our objectives, we reviewed write ups of renowned scholars on the subject matter, we used questionnaire to collect primary data after which the responses were thoroughly analysed and subsequently used for testing the hypothesis that says "Special skills are not required for forensic accounting investigations". From the findings, it shows that special skills are necessities for the work of a forensic accountant hence, the need for educators to develop a curriculum for forensic accounting in their institutions. There is no doubt that results of the study provide much-needed guidance to educators for the development of forensic accounting curriculum by identifying pertinent skills to accompany a program of study. The researchers recommend that all tertiary institutions in Nigeria that offer accountancy should include courses or topics that will emphasis critical thinking, written communication, composure and oral communication. Others are legal knowledge, deductive analysis, Investigative Flexibility, Analytical Proficiency and Unstructured Problem solving.

Keywords: Elevant Skills, Forensic Accountants

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Jugu, Yohanna Gyang, An Empirical Investigation of the Relevant Skills of Forensic Accountants in Nigeria (March 28, 2011). Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. 1, No. 2, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1797683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
American Institute of Certified PUblic Accountants
Crossref
T A Buckoff , R A Schrader
The teaching of forensic .accounting in the United States
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 1 , p. 135 - 146 Posted: 2000
D L Crumbley
Forensic and Investigative Accounting Posted: 2008
C Durtschi
The Tallahassee bean counters: A problem-based learning case in forensic auditing
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 18 , p. 137 - 174 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
842
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,717
RANK
66,383
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Relevance of Forensic Accounting to Financial Crimes in Private and Public Sectors of Third World Economies: A Study from Nigeria

By Abubakar Kasum

The Role of Forensic Accounting in Fraud Investigation and Litigation Support

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Forensic Accounting in Developing Economies Problems and Prospects

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies