Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Fraud in the Organization: An Internal Audit Perspective

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 3, No. 1, January-June 2011

Posted: 4 Apr 2011

Priscilla Ann Burnaby

Bentley University

Martha A. Howe

Bentley University

Brigitte Muehlmann

Babson College

Date Written: March 29, 2011

Abstract

Fraud constitutes a significant problem for many organizations. Its effects range from monetary costs to reputational loss. With the added impetus of recent regulations, the implementation of an effective anti-fraud program is a priority for most companies. To establish the basis for the effectiveness of controls and procedures designed in the anti-fraud program, a comprehensive fraud risk assessment should be performed and the program should be periodically reassessed. The Institute of Internal Auditors’ (IIA) Practice Guide, IPPF – Internal Auditing and Fraud states that the organization’s internal audit activity is often called upon to play a pivotal role in the development and evaluation of anti-fraud programs. This study examined the perceptions of internal auditors based on a survey instrument that collected data on the top fraud risks that internal auditors believed threaten their organizations and the procedures they perceived to be most effective in detecting those frauds. In response to The IIAs’ Global Technology Audit Guide, Fraud Prevention and the Detection in an Automated World, the study also examined internal auditors’ use of various business intelligence tools. The survey participants also shared the skills that they considered to be most important for detecting fraud. These skills were mapped to The IIA’s Internal Auditor Competency Framework.

Keywords: Fraud Risks, International Professional Practices Framework, Intelligence Tools, Asset Misappropriation, Corruption, Tools and Techniques

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Burnaby, Priscilla Ann and Howe, Martha A. and Muehlmann, Brigitte, Detecting Fraud in the Organization: An Internal Audit Perspective (March 29, 2011). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 3, No. 1, January-June 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1799742
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,774
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies