Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Churches and Private Educational Institutions as Facilitator of Money Laundering in Nigeria

African Journal of Education and Technology, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 30-38, 2011

9 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2011 Last revised: 2 Aug 2011

Professor Kato Gogo Kingston

Rivers State University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: April 5, 2011

Abstract

The goal of this study is to empirically evaluate the role of churches and private educational institutions in money laundering and related organised crimes in Nigeria. There is worldwide concern over the ways in which criminally acquired assets are being concealed, transferred and preserved. Many countries including Nigeria have enacted laws against money laundering; drugs trafficking; and, corruption. The study investigates the association of money laundering through the private schools and churches; and, four independent variables namely: Laws and Regulations, enforcement efficiency, banking compliance and corruption. The multiple regression models of Aldrich (2005) and Fisher (1922) are employed to investigate the association of the variables. The study hypothesis that money laundering in Nigeria is enhanced by the proliferation of churches and private educational institutions by which finances are largely unchecked by the authorities to such a degree that defective banking regulations; lack of government control of the funds of private schools and faith groups; inadequate enforceability of anti-money laundering laws; and, corruption are the propelling factors. The study suggests that private schools and churches in Nigeria are facilitating money laundering, corruption and organised crimes. It finds that there are serious loopholes in Nigeria’s money laundering laws which enable criminal assets to be preserved and protected under the auspices of schools and church’s assets. The study concludes that there is an urgent need for the overhaul of the national criminal laws and the regulation of the assets of private schools and churches in such ways that can deprive the criminal concealment of illegally acquired assets.

Keywords: Assets, Crime, Money laundering, Nigeria, Churches, Fraud Techniques

Suggested Citation:

Kingston, Professor Kato Gogo, Churches and Private Educational Institutions as Facilitator of Money Laundering in Nigeria (April 5, 2011). African Journal of Education and Technology, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 30-38, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1803247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J D Agarwal , Aman Agarwal
Globalization and international capital flows
Finance India , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 99 Posted: 2004
John Aldrich
Fisher and Regression
Statistical Science , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 401 - 417 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Amedeo Argentiero , Michele Bagella , Francesco Busato
Money Laundering in a Two Sector Model: Using Theory for Measurement
CEIS Working Paper No. 128 Pages: 24 Posted: 7 Sep 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kimberly J Cook , Powell , C
Christianity and punitive mentalities: A qualitative study
Crime, Law & Social Change , volume 39 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,413
RANK
245,414
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Criminal Law eJournal

Follow

Criminology eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economics of Money Laundering: A Primer

By Donato Masciandaro

A Theory of 'Crying Wolf': The Economics of Money Laundering Enforcement

By Előd Takáts

Money Laundering and Financial Means of Organized Crime: Some Preliminary Empirical Findings

By Friedrich Schneider

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies