Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Behavioural Theory of Fraud: The Accountants’ Perception of the Fraud Triangle

The Certified National Accountant, A Quarterly Journal of Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Vol. 14, No. 1, January - March 2006

14 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 6, 2011

Abstract

Fraud has become one of the greatest threats to the world economy. It is a global problem, not only in terms of its impact on our major corporations and key financial institutions, but also its effect on smaller companies and ultimately the wider public who indirectly pay for the losses through increased costs of goods and services. Many organisations fail to recognise that fraud can prove to be even more catastrophic than other forms of critical incidents such as terrorist attack, fire or flood. Events of that nature may cause serious disruption to the business but rarely are they insurmountable. However, a significant fraud against a company not only undermines financial stability, it can ultimately result in such damage to the reputation and loss of investor's confidence that it proves irreparable. It is often to these reasons that company directors' write-off losses to fraud under the general heading of Bad Debt rather than admit that there has been a failure to implement proper safeguards or managerial negligence In applying appropriate levels of oversight to routine business processes where company cash and assets are at risk.

Keywords: Behavioural Theory, Fraud Theory, Fraud Triangle

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Understanding the Behavioural Theory of Fraud: The Accountants’ Perception of the Fraud Triangle (April 6, 2011). The Certified National Accountant, A Quarterly Journal of Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Vol. 14, No. 1, January - March 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1804219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Examiner
Report to the Nation Posted: 1996
The City of London Police in Partnership with Coopers and Lybrand
• BBCNews2005. • Butterworths Lexis Nexis, www.betterworth.com , • Fraud Stop Posted: 1995
Julia Penny
Corporate Fraud Prevention and Detection Posted: 2005
• Ndic
Returns ofInsured Banks Fraud & Forgeries Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,220
RANK
43,338
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies