Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detection-Controlled Prediction of Accounting Irregularities: Channel Stuffing as an Illustrative Case

46 Pages Posted: 10 May 2011 Last revised: 22 Jul 2012

Somnath Das

University of Illinois at Chicago

Pervin K. Shroff

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

Haiwen (Helen) Zhang

University of Minnesota

Date Written: July 20, 2012

Abstract

A number of prior studies use a sample of detected accounting irregularities, e.g., SEC’s enforcement actions and class-action lawsuits, to predict the likelihood of accounting violations. The ability of these models to correctly identify potential violations is inhibited by the fact that all violations that occur are not observed. We demonstrate that using a partial-observability bivariate probit model to jointly estimate the probability of commission and the probability of detection of an accounting violation helps to improve the classification accuracy of the prediction model when not all violations are detected. As an illustrative example, we use a sample of firms that engaged in accounting irregularities associated with a particular form of revenue manipulation – channel stuffing. Channel stuffing is an ideal setting for this purpose because it is difficult to detect without the help of whistle-blowers and provides multiple ex post indicators that can help validate the model’s identification of potential violators. Our results show that the power and specification of the bivariate probit prediction model is superior to that of the simple probit model. We find that a sub-sample of the population of firms identified as having a high likelihood of channel stuffing by the bivariate probit model has similar industry representation and exhibits future reversals in sales, production and profitability that closely parallel those of the detected channel stuffing sample. The same is not true for the sub-sample identified by the simple probit model. In fact, the sub-samples identified by the two models do not exhibit significant overlap. Our results highlight the need to control for the probability of detection to minimize misclassification in studies predicting accounting irregularities that are hard to detect.

Keywords: Channel Stuffing, Bivariate Probit Model with Partial Observability, Detection

Suggested Citation:

Das, Somnath and Shroff, Pervin K. and Zhang, Haiwen (Helen), Detection-Controlled Prediction of Accounting Irregularities: Channel Stuffing as an Illustrative Case (July 20, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1836742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1836742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Bushee
The influence of institutional investors on myopic R&D investment behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1998
J Callen , S Robb , D Segal
Revenue manipulation and restatements by loss firms
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Chen , C Chin , H Chi
Audit firm legal form and fraudulent financial reporting. Working paper Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Abdul Ghafoor , Rozaimah Zainudin , Nurul Shahnaz Mahdzan
Factors Eliciting Corporate Fraud in Emerging Markets: Case of Firms Subject to Enforcement Actions in Malaysia
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 160 , issue 2 , p. 587 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,954
RANK
105,875
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies