Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Speak Up or Shut Up? The Moderating Role of Credibility on Auditor Remedial Defense Tactics

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2011 Last revised: 14 Jun 2012

Jonathan H. Grenier

Miami University - Department of Accountancy

Bradley Pomeroy

University of Waterloo

Andrew B. Reffett

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 12, 2012

Abstract

In cases of alleged audit failure, auditors can make general statements regarding the quality of their work, or other statements intended to decrease juror assessments of auditor negligence. In this study, we examine how the perceived credibility of these remedial defense tactics moderates their effect on juror assessments of auditor negligence in cases of undetected fraud. We predict and find experimental evidence that remedial tactics result in lower negligence assessments when such tactics are perceived to be credible, but “backfire” (i.e., result in higher negligence assessments) when perceived as not credible. We also predict and find that credibility is compromised either when client importance is high, or when a remedial tactic is implemented by an audit firm’s local (as opposed to national) office. As such, we find that remedial tactics result in lower negligence assessments when client importance is low and are implemented by a firm’s national office, but result in higher negligence assessments when client importance is high, irrespective of the tactic’s source (local versus national).

Keywords: auditor negligence, auditor independence, credibility, remedial defense tactics

Suggested Citation:

Grenier, Jonathan H. and Pomeroy, Bradley and Reffett, Andrew B., Speak Up or Shut Up? The Moderating Role of Credibility on Auditor Remedial Defense Tactics (June 12, 2012). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1857170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1857170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession Posted: 2008
M D Alicke , M F Weigold , S L Rogers
Inferring intentions and responsibility from motives and outcomes: Evidential and extra-evidential judgments
Social Cognition , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 286 - 305 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
J Barton , M Mercer
To blame or not to blame: Analysts' reactions to external explanations for poor financial performance
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 509 - 533 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Christine Gimbar , Molly Mercer
Do Auditors Accurately Predict Litigation and Reputation Consequences of Inaccurate Accounting Estimates?
38 Pages · Posted: 25 Apr 2018 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert Libby , Patrick Witz
Can Artificial Intelligence Reduce the Effect of Independence Conflicts on Audit Firm Liability?
51 Pages · Posted: 9 Dec 2020 · Last revised: 8 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 816
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,852
RANK
321,382
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Exposure to Practice Risk on Tax Professionals' Judgments and Recommendations

By Kathryn Kadous and Anne M. Magro

The Use of Remedial Tactics in Negligence Litigation

By Robert M. Cornell, Rick C. Warne, ...

Apologies and Legal Settlement: An Empirical Examination

By Jennifer K. Robbennolt

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies