Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of Anomaly Detection Techniques to Identify Fraudulent Refunds

19 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2011

Hussein Issa

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: August 16, 2011

Abstract

Anomaly detection is a concept widely applied to numerous domains. Several techniques of anomaly detection have been developed over the years, in practice as well as research. The application of this concept has extended to diverse areas, from network intrusion detection to novelty detection in robot behavior. In the business world, the application of these techniques to fraud detection is of a special interest, driven by the great losses companies endure because of such fraudulent activities. This paper describes classification-based and clustering-based anomaly detection techniques and their applications, more specifically the application to the problem of certain fraudulent activities. As an illustration, the paper applies K-Means, a clustering-based algorithm, to a refund transactions dataset from a telecommunication company, with the intent of identifying fraudulent refunds.

Suggested Citation:

Issa, Hussein and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., Application of Anomaly Detection Techniques to Identify Fraudulent Refunds (August 16, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1910468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1910468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
N Abe , B Zadrozny , J Langford
Outlier detection by active learning
Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , p. 504 - 509 Posted: 2006-12-21
Crossref
L D Baker , T Hofmann , A K Mccallum , Y Yang
A hierarchical probabilistic model for novelty detection in text
Citeseer Posted: 1999-12-22
R Brause , T Langsdorf , M Hepp
Neural data mining for credit card fraud detection. Tools with Artificial Intelligence
Proceedings. 11th IEEE International Conference on , p. 103 - 106 Posted: 1999-12-22
P L Brockett , R A Derrig , L L Golden , A Levine , M Alpert
Fraud classification using principal component analysis of RIDITs
Journal of Risk and Insurance , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 341 - 371 Posted: 2002-12-21
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Giridhari Sahoo , Sony Snigdha Sahoo
Machine Learning and Information Processing
, volume 1311 , p. 171 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Sergij S. Vitvitskiy , Oleksandr N. Kurakin , Pavlo S. Pokataev , Oleksii M. Skriabin , Dmytro B. Sanakoiev
Formation of a new paradigm of anti-money laundering: The experience of Ukraine
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 354 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Jithin Mathews , Priya Mehta , Suryamukhi , Sobhan Babu
Link prediction techniques to handle tax evasion
, p. 307 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Priya Mehta , Jithin Mathews , Dikshant Bisht , K. Suryamukhi , Sandeep Kumar , Ch Sobhan Babu
Business Information Systems
, volume 389 , p. 169 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
690
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,060
RANK
86,200
6 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economics of Innovation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Development of an Expert System for the Automatic Detection of Automobile Insurance Fraud

By El-bachir Belhadji and Georges Dionne

Unemployment Benefits, Labor Market Transitions, and Spurious Flows: A Multinational Logit Model with Errors in Classification

By James M. Poterba and Lawrence H. Summers

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies