Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Five Audits and Accounting Fraud

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 27, No. 1, pp. 209-247, March 2010

Posted: 27 Aug 2011

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

Empirical studies of earnings management, audit pricing, and audit reporting provide extensive evidence that the Big Five public accounting firms are associated with higher quality financial statements (Francis 2004). Nevertheless, the recent high-profile financial reporting failures that roiled the U.S. capital markets cast doubt on whether this proposition remains valid. Indeed, many commentators interpret the steep upward trend during the late 1990s and early 2000s in accounting misstatements by companies with Big Five auditors as almost conclusive evidence that their assurance services have deteriorated over time (e.g., Coffee 2002; Imhoff 2003; Zeff 2003). Measuring trends in absolute audit quality is typically infeasible, so we more narrowly focus on discriminating between the relative performance of the Big Five and non-Big Five audit firms in preventing companies from orchestrating accounting fraud. Contrary to recent criticisms of the Big Five firms, we provide compelling evidence that they were consistently associated with a lower incidence of accounting fraud, even in the years shortly prior to the sweeping corporate governance reforms. Moreover, this finding is robust to controlling for the endogenous effects of screening by audit firms and selection by their clients.

Keywords: Big 5, fraud, audit quality

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Big Five Audits and Accounting Fraud (March 1, 2010). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 27, No. 1, pp. 209-247, March 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1917861
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,125
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies