Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Audit Expectation Gap - The Perception of Accounting Academics

35 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2011

Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: September 1, 2011

Abstract

This research is about the perception of Accounting Academics on the vexed issue of whether the injection of Forensic Accounting techniques, on a cost/benefit basis, in an audit is capable of increasing the ability of the auditor to discover fraud and thus help in bridging the audit expectation gap in Nigeria. A survey research design approach was adopted for this study. Questionnaire was administered on Accounting Academics of 8 tertiary institutions in the Eastern part of Nigeria. The study revealed, from the perception of Accounting Academics, that Forensic Accounting techniques injected in an audit and given cost/benefit considerations is capable of increasing the ability of the Auditor to detect fraud and thus help bridge the audit expectation gap in Nigeria. This finding has implications for both accounting education and accounting practice.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Audit, Expectation Gap, Perception, Accounting Academics

JEL Classification: M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Chukwunedu, Okaro Sunday and Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Forensic Accounting and Audit Expectation Gap - The Perception of Accounting Academics (September 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1920865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1920865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Abduiqaderai Qarni
Audit expectation gap in saudi Arabia-perceptions of auditors,preparers of Financial Statements and users Posted: 2004
N Anwar
Forensic accounting: A dynamic tool for combating corruption
The Financial Express , p. 1 - 1 Posted: 2008-04-20
A Chariri
The Relevance of Forensic Accounting in Detecting Financial Frauds
Journal Organisasi dan Manajem , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 81 - 88 Posted: 2007
L Chui
An experimental examination of the effects of fraud specialist and audit mindsets on fraud risk assessments and on the development of fraud-related problem representations Posted: 2011
Load more
5 Citations
Madan Lal Bhasin
Survey of Skills Required by the Forensic Accountants: Evidence from a Developing Country
International Journal of Contemporary Business Studies, Vol: 4, No: 2. February, 2013 · 33 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2015 · Downloads: 726
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elif Yücel
Handbook of Research on Theory and Practice of Financial Crimes
, p. 218 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Madan Lal Bhasin
Survey of Appropriate Skills Required by Forensic Accountants: Empirical Evidence from a Developing Economy
International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies, 1 (2) (2013) 53-73 · 21 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2015 · Downloads: 359
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Madan Lal Bhasin
An Emperical Investigation of the Relevant Skills of Forensic Accountants: Experience of a Developing Economy
43 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2015 · Downloads: 1,443
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,844
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,734
RANK
10,527
5 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Relevance of Forensic Accounting to Financial Crimes in Private and Public Sectors of Third World Economies: A Study from Nigeria

By Abubakar Kasum

The Role of Forensic Accounting in Fraud Investigation and Litigation Support

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Forensic Accounting in Developing Economies Problems and Prospects

By Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies