Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Expert Witness in Accounting Fraud Cases

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 103-111, 2012

9 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2012

Maria H. Sanchez

Rider University - Department of Accounting

Shirley Wei Zhang

Rider University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

We provide information regarding expert testimony in financial fraud cases. Financial fraud, including tax fraud, is on the rise, and so is the demand for expert witness testimony for both the prosecutors and the defense team when these frauds are prosecuted. We detail the role and qualifications of the accounting expert witness and we provide examples of two high profile fraud cases in which expert testimony of accountants was used. This article should be of interest to attorneys, accountants, academics and students.

Keywords: financial frauds, expert witness

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Sanchez, Maria H. and Zhang, Shirley Wei, The Role of the Expert Witness in Accounting Fraud Cases (2012). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 103-111, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1946013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
HealthSouth Corp.: Scrushy's Lawyers Bash Fraud Analysis
Chicago Tribune Posted: 2005-04-16
Scrushy Perjury Case Gutted
Los Angeles Times Posted: 2005-04-13
Mark A Beasley , A Frank , Steven M Buckless , Douglas F Glover , Prawitt
Auditing Cases: An Interactive Learning Approach , volume 4 Posted: 2009
Cendrowski , James P Harry , Louis W Martin , Petro
The Handbook of Fraud Deterrence Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,595
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,848
RANK
26,487
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies