Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Fraud: An Estimation of Detection Probability

37 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2011 Last revised: 16 Nov 2011

Artur Filipe Ewald Wuerges

Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Jose Alonso Borba

Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC) - Accounting Department

Date Written: November 4, 2011

Abstract

Financial statement fraud (FSF) is costly for investors and can damage the credibility of the audit profession. To prevent and detect fraud, it is helpful to know its causes. The binary choice models (e.g. logit and probit) commonly used in the extant literature, however, fail to account for undetected cases of fraud and thus present unreliable hypotheses tests. Using a sample of 118 companies accused of fraud by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we estimated a logit model that corrects the problems arising from undetected frauds in U.S. companies. Our results indicate that only 1.43 percent of the instances of FSF were publicized by the SEC. Of the seven significant variables included in the traditional, uncorrected logit model, three were found to be actually non-significant in the corrected model. The likelihood of FSF is 5.12 times higher when the firm’s auditor does not issue an unqualified (clean) report.

Keywords: Accounting fraud, AAER, Misclassification, Logit, Factor Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Wuerges, Artur Filipe Ewald and Borba, Jose Alonso, Accounting Fraud: An Estimation of Detection Probability (November 4, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1954783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1954783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 68 Posted: 2000
Crossref
W S Albrecht , C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht , M F Zimbelman
Fraud examination Posted: 2009
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit. AU Section 316 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
762
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,557
RANK
75,826
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies