Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Forensic Accountant in a Medicare Fraud Identity Theft Case

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 85-92, 2012

8 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2012

Maria H. Sanchez

Rider University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Identity theft is a rampant problem in the United States. It occurs when one’s personal information is stolen for the purpose of impersonating that person, making unauthorized purchases, taking money from bank accounts, opening new lines of credit with the stolen information, or using that information for other financial gain. According to a recent survey by the Javelin Strategy and Research Center, at least one in ten people have been the victim of identity theft. Forensic accountants and fraud specialists can help to prevent, detect and prosecute identity theft. This study examines a case of identity theft involving Medicare fraud. The role that the forensic accountant may play in the prosecution is discussed. The forensic accountant is important in these types of cases because the financial trail must be traced and will lead back to the criminal. The forensic accountant also has the important job of preparing the evidence exhibits for the prosecutors to use in court.

Keywords: forensic accounting, Medicare fraud, identity theft

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Sanchez, Maria H., The Role of the Forensic Accountant in a Medicare Fraud Identity Theft Case (2012). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 85-92, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1957315
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
David Becker , Daniel Kessler , Mark Mcclellan
Detecting Medicare Abuse
Journal of Health Economics , volume 24 , p. 189 - 210 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Geri L Dreiling
Medical ID Theft
ABA Journal , volume 64 Posted: 2007
Don Edwards
On stratified sampling and ratio estimation in Medicare and Medicaid benefit integrity investigations
Health Services & Outcomes Research Methodology , volume 11 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 79 - 94 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Attorney Charges 44 Members and Associates of an Armenian-American Organized Crime Enterprise with $100 Million Medicare Fraud Posted: 2010-10-13
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
926
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,115
RANK
58,165
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Household Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Hospital Ownership on Medical Productivity

By Daniel P. Kessler and Mark B. Mcclellan

Hospital Ownership and Cost and Quality of Care: is There a Dime's Worth of Difference?

By Frank A. Sloan, Gabriel Picone, ...

Nonprofit Production and Competition

By Darius N. Lakdawalla and Tomas Philipson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies