Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Financial Reporting: An Empirical Analysis in Malaysia

36 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2011 Last revised: 13 Jan 2012

Sherliza Puat Nelson

International Islamic University of Malaysia (IIUM)

Date Written: June 29, 2011

Abstract

The objective of this research is to investigate the fraud firms’ characteristics in two ways; 3 years prior and after, the fraud occurrences. The characteristics comprise of the firms’ audit committee size, audit committee independence, board’s size, independent directors, block holders, cash flows operating and long term debts. The sample includes the fraudulent firms identified based on certain restrictions consistent with prior literature. Data collection is hand collected via corporate annuals reports. The significance of the research project is to identify the fraud firms’ characteristics and provide some insights before and after the fraud took place. Findings show that block holders and independent directors are important features in an organisation.

Keywords: Fraudulent financial reporting, audit committee, board size, independence, block holder, cash flows, long term debts

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48, J24

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, Sherliza Puat, Fraudulent Financial Reporting: An Empirical Analysis in Malaysia (June 29, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1966317 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1966317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peter
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Mohammad J Abdolmohammadi , J Shantaeu
Personal attributes of Expert Auditors
Organizational Behaviour and Human Decision Process , volume 53 , p. 158 - 172 Posted: 1992
Crossref
H Y Baek , D R Johnson , J W Kim
Managerial Ownership, Corporate Governance and Voluntary Disclosure
Journal of Business and Economic Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 Posted: 2009
P Baxter , J Cotter
Audit Committees and Earnings Quality. Accounting and Finance , volume 49 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
542
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,853
RANK
117,482
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies