Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Financial Reporting: A Basic Analysis

ISLAM, ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE: CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES IN THE NEW DECADE, Norhayati Mohd Alwi and Sherliza Puat Nelson, eds., IIUM Press: Malaysia

13 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2011 Last revised: 13 Jan 2012

Sherliza Puat Nelson

International Islamic University of Malaysia (IIUM)

Date Written: September 29, 2011

Abstract

The objective of the research is to identify differences between two group of firms, fraud and non fraud firms. Fraud is of particular interest here because the implication is massive, the effect to the company, staff and creditors. The research intends to look at any differences with regard to the board’s and firm’s characteristics. Board’s characteristics consist of board independence and size, and also the audit committee experts. While, firm’s characteristics, contain the financial characteristics of the firm such as long term liability, total assets, sales and operating cash flow. Even though, the study fails to find significant result, but appointing audit committees with certain expertise, may help the company to effectively managed their financial resources.

Keywords: fraudulent financial reporting, financial, audit committees, expertise, sales, operating cash flow, total assets, long term liability

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48, J24

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, Sherliza Puat, Fraudulent Financial Reporting: A Basic Analysis (September 29, 2011). ISLAM, ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE: CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES IN THE NEW DECADE, Norhayati Mohd Alwi and Sherliza Puat Nelson, eds., IIUM Press: Malaysia, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1966326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M S Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation Between the Board of Directors Composition and Financial Statement Fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 171 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , P D Lapides
Fraudulent Financial Reporting: Consideration of Industry Traits and Corporate Governance Mechanisms
Accounting Horizons , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 441 - 454 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
653
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,918
RANK
92,554
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies