Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Updating History

44 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2011 Last revised: 15 Mar 2012

Rüdiger Stucke

Warburg Pincus; University of Oxford

Date Written: December 1, 2011

Abstract

The Thomson VentureXpert database has been used for over two decades by practitioners and academics to benchmark and judge the performance of private equity and venture capital. A closer look at aggregated and individual figures, however, reveals severe anomalies in the underlying data which are the result of ceasing data updates. Since existing errors have a systematic and persistent character, they do not just increase noise but result in a significant downward bias of presented performances. Consequently, many empirical results established using this database may not be replicable with correct data. In particular, the claim that private equity has not outperformed public equity is unlikely to hold with true numbers.

Keywords: private equity, venture capital, performance measurement, forensic finance, data integrity

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G15, G24, G34

Suggested Citation:

Stucke, Rüdiger, Updating History (December 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1967636 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1967636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Robert Harris , Tim Jenkinson , Rüdiger Stucke
A White Paper on Private Equity Data and Research Posted: 2010
Steven N Kaplan , Antoinette Schoar
Private Equity Performance: Returns, Persistence, and Capital Flows
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , p. 1791 - 1823 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Josh Lerner , Antoinette Schoar , Wan Wongsunwai
Smart Institutions, Foolish Choices? The Limited Partner Performance Puzzle
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 731 - 764 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Austin M Long , Craig J Nickels
A Private Investment Benchmark Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,050
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,218
RANK
17,868
27 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Venture Capital and the Structure of Capital Markets: Banks Versus Stock Markets

By Ronald J. Gilson and Bernard S. Black

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies