Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Survey of Systemic Risk Analytics

U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Financial Research No. 0001

165 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2012 Last revised: 16 Mar 2016

Dimitrios Bisias

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

Mark D. Flood

R. H. Smith School of Business, U. of Maryland

Andrew W. Lo

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

Stavros Valavanis

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 11, 2012

Abstract

We provide a survey of 31 quantitative measures of systemic risk in the economics and finance literature, chosen to span key themes and issues in systemic risk measurement and management. We motivate these measures from the supervisory, research, and data perspectives in the main text, and present concise definitions of each risk measure - including required inputs, expected outputs, and data requirements - in an extensive appendix. To encourage experimentation and innovation among as broad an audience as possible, we have developed open-source Matlab code for most of the analytics surveyed.

Keywords: systemic risk, financial institutions, liquidity, financial crises, risk management

JEL Classification: G12, G29, C51

Suggested Citation:

Bisias, Dimitrios and Flood, Mark D. and Lo, Andrew W. and Valavanis, Stavros, A Survey of Systemic Risk Analytics (January 11, 2012). U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Financial Research No. 0001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1983602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1983602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
153 References
Autocorrelation-Based Measures: • Input: Monthly hedge fund return data and AUM for all funds in the TASS database with at least 36 consecutive months of non-missing returns, along with the number of funds each month (at the bottom, measured by the right vertical axis Posted: 1977-01
• Ouput
For each hedge fund, its Q statistic defined in (A.103)
• Output
The systemic liquidity indicator ρ * t defined in (A.104)
Crossref
Hedge Fund Liquidation Probability: • Input: Using all funds in both the live and graveyard databases of the TASS database for which there are at least 2 years of history Posted: 1994-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,640
ABSTRACT VIEWS
27,159
RANK
3,402
187 Citations
153 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Office of Financial Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

CoVaR

By Tobias Adrian and Markus K. Brunnermeier

CoVaR

By Tobias Adrian and Markus K. Brunnermeier

A Theory of Systemic Risk and Design of Prudential Bank Regulation

By Viral V. Acharya

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies