Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Financial Reporting: Do Red Flags Really Help?

International Journal of Academic Research: Economics and Engineering, Vol.4, December 2010

11 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2014

Rasha Kassem

University of Northampton; Loughborough University

Mohamed A. Hegazy

Department of Accounting, The American University in Cairo

Date Written: December 1, 2010

Abstract

Purpose– Aims to determine whether red flags can be helpful for external auditors in detecting fraudulent financial reporting. The research explores whether external auditors demographic factors affect external auditors’ perception about the ability of red flags to detect fraudulent financial reporting in Egypt.

Design/methodology/approach– Data was collected using a questionnaire that was pretested by a pilot study. A questionnaire was then distributed to a sample of 100 external auditors working in different audit firms in Egypt and having different years of experience. The sample of external auditors was randomly selected.

Findings – According to external auditors’ opinion, red flags are helpful in detecting fraud. Our research didn’t support the effect of external auditors’ experience and type of audit office on auditors’ perception about red flags ability to detect fraudulent financial reporting.

Research Limitations– two external auditors from the big 4 international audit firms filled in the questionnaire, thus our results can’t be generalized to all audit firms in Egypt. There can also be other red flags in the literature that aren’t mentioned in the research study.

Originality/value- Our research included a list of specific red flags for fraudulent financial reporting that were highly accepted by the sample of external auditors in our study. These specific red flags can be used in conjunction with SAS 99 red flags to enhance external auditors’ ability in detecting fraudulent financial reporting. The research also ranked all red flags for fraudulent financial reporting according to their relative importance based on external auditor opinion which can help auditors to focus their efforts more on high quality red flags during brainstorming sessions which will in turn facilitate fraud detection. Future research should be more directed toward listing other red flags for fraudulent financial reporting in the literature and should test them using other methods like experiments or interviews. The list of red flags presented in our research can for a good base for future research.

Keywords: fraud, fraud detection, fraudulent financial reporting, red flags, auditing standards

JEL Classification: APS

Suggested Citation:

Kassem, Rasha and Hegazy, Mohamed A., Fraudulent Financial Reporting: Do Red Flags Really Help? (December 1, 2010). International Journal of Academic Research: Economics and Engineering, Vol.4, December 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2011332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Concealed liabilities. Available at www.aicpa.org
AICPA , p. 2 - 6 Posted: 2007
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standard No. 99: Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Available at www.aicpa.org Posted: 2007-04
W Albrecht , Conan C Steve , Chad O Albrecht , Albrecht
Posted: 2006
W Albrecht , Steven
Fraudulent financial transactions Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,375
RANK
13,094
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Theory & Practice eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies