Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Values, Culture, and Corporate Litigation

Management Science, 2015, 61(12): 2905-2925.

67 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2012 Last revised: 18 Dec 2015

Irena Hutton

Florida State University - College of Business

Danling Jiang

College of Business, Stony Brook University

Alok Kumar

University of Miami - Miami Herbert Business School

Date Written: October 29, 2014

Abstract

Using one of the largest samples of litigation data to date, we examine whether the political culture of a firm determines its propensity for corporate misconduct. We measure political culture using the political contributions of top managers, firm PACs, and its local residents. We show that firms with Republican culture are more likely to be the subject of civil rights, labor and environmental litigation than Democratic firms, consistent with the Democratic ideology that emphasizes equal rights, labor rights, and environmental protection. However, firms with Democratic culture are more likely to be the subject of litigation related to securities fraud and intellectual property rights violations than Republican firms whose Party ideology stresses self-reliance, property rights, market discipline, and limited government regulation. Upon litigation filing, both types of firms experience similar announcement reaction, which suggests that the observed relation between political culture and corporate misconduct is unlikely to reflect differences in expected litigation costs.

Keywords: Political values, culture, litigation, managerial misconduct, Corporate Misconduct

JEL Classification: G34, M14, D21, A13, K22, K31, K32

Suggested Citation:

Hutton, Irena and Jiang, Danling and Kumar, Alok, Political Values, Culture, and Corporate Litigation (October 29, 2014). Management Science, 2015, 61(12): 2905-2925., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2015692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2015692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,991
RANK
42,904
56 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance, Bank Mergers and Executive Compensation

By Yan Liu, Carol Padgett, ...

The Dynamics of Borrower Reputation Following Financial Misreporting

By Sudheer Chava, Kershen Huang, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies