Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Aggressiveness and Accounting Fraud

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 51 (4), 739-778, 2013

59 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2012 Last revised: 20 Nov 2013

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: December 5, 2012

Abstract

There are competing arguments and mixed prior evidence on whether firms that are aggressive in their financial reporting exhibit more or less tax aggressiveness. Our research contributes to resolving this issue by examining the association between aggressive tax reporting and the incidence of alleged accounting fraud. Relying on several proxies for tax aggressiveness to triangulate our evidence, we generally find that tax aggressive U.S. public firms are less likely to commit accounting fraud. However, we caution that our results are sensitive to how tax aggressiveness is measured. More specifically, four (two) of the five (three) proxies for firms’ effective tax rates (book-tax differences) load positively (negatively) during the 1981-2001 period, implying that fraud firms are less tax aggressiveness. Our inferences persist when we isolate the 1995-2001 period in which accounting impropriety steeply rose and corporate tax compliance steeply fell. Moreover, we continue to find that tax aggressive firms are less apt to fraudulently manipulate their financial statements when we apply factor analysis to identify tax avoidance with a common factor extracted from the underlying proxies and match on propensity scores to ensure that the fraud and non-fraud samples have very similar non-tax characteristics.

Keywords: accounting fraud, tax aggressiveness, effective tax rates, book-tax differences

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Lisowsky, Petro and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Tax Aggressiveness and Accounting Fraud (December 5, 2012). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 51 (4), 739-778, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2016166 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2016166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
Armstrong C.; A , Jagolinzer
And D Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , p. 225 - 71 Posted: 2010
Brad A. Badertscher , John D. Phillips , Morton P.K. Pincus , Sonja O. Rego
Tax Implications of Earnings Management Activities: Evidence from Restatements
Pages: 50 Posted: 13 Mar 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M O Pincus; And S , Rego
Earnings Management Strategies and the Trade-Off between Tax Benefits and Detection Risk: To Conform or Not to Conform?
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 63 - 97 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,910
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,343
RANK
20,050
36 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies