Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Role of nFTK(2007) in Pension Funds Evaluation

16 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2012

Sergey Nagornii

Quantinvest

M. Nagornaia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 31, 2012

Abstract

This paper shows that the new financial regulation introduced in 2007 in the Netherlands, the so-called nieuw Financieel Toetsings Kader (nFTK), has several basic flaws. The nFTK evaluation cannot be trusted. The results are misleading and must not be used for policy decisions. 'Funding problems' of pension funds are exaggerated, and mainly caused by the methodology itself – the nFTK 'funding ratios' may fall even at rising asset values and constant nominal liabilities. The solvency is systemically understated at economic downturns. An artificially imposed dependence of liabilities on interest rates results in false swings of funding ratios and baseless uncertainties around pension funds. Not tradable pension liabilities cannot be priced by riskless rates by definition: unknown liquidity and model risks make ‘risk-free evaluations’ inappropriate. We show the market liability defined by nFTK rules cannot be funded by definition and funding ratios will be insufficient by default, unless contributors pay premiums for pension funds taking risks, instead of being rewarded. We prove the nFTK market liability and funding ratios are irrelevant for the solvency if actuarial discount rates are used to calculate contributions. Hence the nFTK cannot test the solvency. The ability of pension funds to meet obligations depends only on current asset value and its growth. We argue the solvency control must be based on actual performance of pension funds. It is crucial that the discount rate determining the level of contributions do not exceed the actual rate of asset returns. A proxy to liability discount rates is an average rate of pension fund returns on the duration of liabilities. Inconsistent rules and improper risk-free pricing of liabilities lead to devastating consequences for participants of definite benefit pension funds. We show that the solvency of pension funds was underestimated in 2011 by at least 15%.

Keywords: pension funds, definite benefit, solvency, capital markets, stochastic rates, asset, liability

JEL Classification: G23, G11, G12, G14, G22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nagornii, Sergey and Nagornaia, M., Fraudulent Role of nFTK(2007) in Pension Funds Evaluation (January 31, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2025014 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2025014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
De cijfers over 2010 Posted: 2011
Fundamentals of Current Pension Funding and Accounting For Private Sector Pension Plans. An Analysis by the Pension Committee of the American Academy of Actuaries Posted: 2004-07
John C Hull
Options, Futures, Other Derivatives Posted: 2000
Paul Wilmott
Quantitative Finance. J.Wiley & Sons, Ltd Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,216
RANK
580,030
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies