Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Public Company Auditors Complicit in Financial Statement Fraud?

24 Pages Posted: 9 May 2019

Joseph Sammut

SMC University

Date Written: March 18, 2012

Abstract

Financial statements are a primary source and an emphatic conveyance of financial results and positions but become worthless if originating from unreliable or inaccurate information. Central to this enigma of quantitative value or valuelessness is the company’s auditor who is encumbered with the responsibility of adjudicating the correctness or otherwise of the statements.

Within the precincts of financial statements’ incorrectness, two main areas hold sway: incompetence and dishonesty. This Paper deals mainly with the latter sub-culture, the reasons fostering accounting fraud, the role of the company’s auditor, the environment in which the auditing profession operates, the extenuating factors that percolate into the auditing formula and the auditor’s responsibility in the perpetration of financial statement fraud.

This Paper finds sufficient evidence warranting the indictment of auditors for accounting fraud. This is however qualified because of a plethora of issues, the argumentation of which becomes the pivotal part of the Paper. It is within and subsequent to these deliberations that the Paper expresses its consternation on the endemic ineptitude of the auditing profession to arduously secure its natural frontiers, that is public trust and confidence. On this count alone, auditors become guilty by complacency and vacillation.

The author is an auditor by profession and has been in public practise since 1992. There exists however no reason why personal preference and prejudice, if any, could have seeped into the thrust of the Paper. Notwithstanding, should the perception ingested be otherwise, the author offers his sincere apologies.

Suggested Citation:

Sammut, Joseph, Are Public Company Auditors Complicit in Financial Statement Fraud? (March 18, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2025640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2025640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
W S Albrecht , Albrech Albrecht , Co
Fraud and Corporate Executives: Agency, Stewardship and Broken Trust
Journal of Forensic Accounting , p. 109 - 130 Posted: 2004
C Albrecht
Fraud and Forensic Accounting in a Digital Environment Posted: 2009
N &amp; Brennan , M Mcgrath
Financial Statement Fraud: Some Lessons from US and European Case Studies
Australian Accounting Review , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 49 - 61 Posted: 2007-07
Crossref
J &amp; Carcello , A Nagy
Audit Firm Tenure and Fraudulent Financial Reporting
Auditing: A Journal of Practise and Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 55 - 69 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Joseph Sammut
Are Public Company Auditors Complicit in Financial Statement Fraud?
24 Pages · Posted: 9 May 2019 · Downloads: 370
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,200
RANK
184,062
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies