Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and the Law: The Forensic Accountant in the Capacity of an Expert Witness

Value Relevance of Accounting Information in Capital Markets IGI Global Publications 2016

11 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2012 Last revised: 14 Dec 2016

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: March 19, 2012

Abstract

This paper focuses on what constitutes “an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence”, namely professional scepticism.

This paper also focuses on factors and reasons contributory to the ever increasing use of (and the need for) forensic accountants – particularly in courts. It also addresses various standards which must be taken into consideration before testimonies provided by expert witnesses are considered to be admissible.

Keywords: litigation support, investigative accounting, computer forensics, expert witnesses, fraud auditing

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Forensic Accounting and the Law: The Forensic Accountant in the Capacity of an Expert Witness (March 19, 2012). Value Relevance of Accounting Information in Capital Markets IGI Global Publications 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026071 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2026071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Ibid
Also see Daubert v Merrell Dow Pharms Inc 19 "In assessing the reliability of an expert's proposed testimony, a trial court is afforded considerate level of discretion. In relation to the direct examination of an expert witness, and with particular respect to qualifications, an expert is not considered in a narrow sense , volume 20
See Federal Rules of Evidence 702 REFERENCES AICPA, Statements on Auditing Standards
Crossref
O S Faboyede
Forensic Accounting and the Law: Two Sides Posted: 2009
J Krstic
The Role of Forensic Accountants in Detecting Frauds in Financial Statements Economics and Organization , volume 6 , p. 295 - 302 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,003
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,355
RANK
52,127
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

White Collar Crime eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies