Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Financial Statement Misstatements Facilitate Corporate Acquisitions?

55 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2012 Last revised: 5 Aug 2015

Todd D. Kravet

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Juan Manuel Sanchez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Susan Scholz

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Date Written: July 28, 2015

Abstract

We provide evidence suggesting that managers use financial statement misstatements which improve reported results to facilitate acquisitions. Specifically, we find that firms misstating their financial statements are more likely to make stock-based acquisitions, but not cash-based acquisitions, after the start of the misstatement. In addition, misstatements classified as errors are not associated with stock-based acquisitions. We also find that managerial overconfidence and entrenchment are associated with managers making acquisitions after misstatements. Stock price reactions to restatement announcements are more negative, by 770 basis points on average, when stock-based acquisitions were made during the misstatement period, and these acquisitions are significantly more likely to result in goodwill impairments than are stock-based acquisitions made during non-misstatement periods. Collectively, these results suggest that managers exploit earnings overstatements to facilitate acquisitions and these acquisitions are largely value destroying.

Keywords: Misstatements, Restatements, Earnings Management, Mergers, Acquisitions

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Kravet, Todd D. and Myers, Linda A. and Sanchez, Juan Manuel and Scholz, Susan, Do Financial Statement Misstatements Facilitate Corporate Acquisitions? (July 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2029953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2029953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
F Gu , B Lev
Overpriced shares, ill-advised acquisitions, and goodwill impairments
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1995 - 2022 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Harford
Corporate cash reserves and acquisitions
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1969 - 1997 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Harford
What drives merger waves
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 529 - 560 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Harford , K Li
Decoupling wealth and firm performance: The case of acquiring CEOs
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 917 - 949 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
631
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,543
RANK
96,702
3 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Targets' Earnings Quality and Bidders' Takeover Decisions

By Kartik Raman, Lakshmanan Shivakumar, ...

Target Firm-Specific Information and Acquisition Efficiency

By Xiumin Martin and Ron Shalev

Target’s Earnings Quality and Bidders’ Takeover Decisions

By Kartik Raman, Lakshmanan Shivakumar, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies