Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Forensic Accounting in the United States Becoming a Profession?

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2012

30 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2012

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: April 17, 2012

Abstract

Public accounting in the United States is a profession not only because it is defined as a profession by statute, but because it also fulfills a significant number of sociological criteria to be accepted as a profession. The recent increase in the demand for forensic accountants has resulted in a significant growth in the number of certifications in forensic accounting and also the number of corporations issuing certifications in forensic accounting. Forensic accounting is often referred to as a niche within the public accounting profession. But forensic accounting exhibits many of the same characteristics of a profession as public accounting. This article explores the possibility of forensic accounting as a profession in its own right.

Keywords: forensic accounting, niche, profession, sociology of professions

JEL Classification: J44, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, Is Forensic Accounting in the United States Becoming a Profession? (April 17, 2012). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2041755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Abbott
The System of Professions: An Essay on the Division of Expert Labor
Top 100 Firms Posted: 1988
J Allegretti , M Slepian
AICPA Report Educates CPA Firms Professors on Forensic Accounting Posted: 2010
Aicpa N
Creating a Niche Forensic Practice Series: Best Practices From Leading Experts
Aicpa
The National Accreditation Commission (NAC).‖ Available at Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Wm. Dennis Huber
Forensic Accounting: An Anglo-American Comparison – Forensic Accounting in the U.S.A.
Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 6, Issue 3, Special International Issue, 2014, pp. 154-170. · 17 Pages · Posted: 12 Nov 2014 · Downloads: 585
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zalailah Salleh , Saed Sulub , Hafiza Hashim
Beyond Numbers and Financials: Accounting and Corporate Sustainability
FGIC 1st Conference on Governance & Integrity, 2017 · 13 Pages · Posted: 4 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 79
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Peterson K Ozili
Forensic Accounting Research Around the World
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming · 42 Pages · Posted: 29 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 949
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,938
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,690
RANK
19,570
3 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Who Cares About Auditor Reputation?

By Jan Barton

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies