Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality: Evidence from the Field

73 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2012 Last revised: 21 Feb 2014

Ilia D. Dichev

Emory University - Department of Accounting

John R. Graham

Duke University; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Campbell R. Harvey

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 7, 2013

Abstract

We provide insights into earnings quality from a survey of 169 CFOs of public companies and in-depth interviews of 12 CFOs and two standard setters. CFOs believe that (i) above all, high-quality earnings are sustainable and repeatable; specific characteristics include consistent reporting choices, backing by actual cash flows, and absence of one-time items and long-term estimates; (ii) about 50% of earnings quality is driven by non-discretionary factors such as industry and macro-economic conditions; (iii) in any given period, about 20% of firms manage earnings to misrepresent economic performance, and for such firms 10% of EPS is typically managed; (iv) earnings manipulation is hard to unravel from the outside but peer comparisons and lack of correspondence between earnings and cash flows provide helpful red flags. In addition, CFOs disagree with current standard setting on a number of issues including the sheer number of promulgated rules, the top-down approach to rule-making, the neglect of the matching principle, and the emphasis on fair value accounting. They indicate that a rules-based culture makes the audit function centralized and mechanical, and hinders the development of audit professionals. A summary impression from our work is that CFOs view earnings quality as more of a single and unconditional characteristic, in contrast to current research where measures of earnings quality are strongly conditional on the decision setting. This CFO view is related to their idea of “one number” - a single earnings metric that shapes both their interactions with external stakeholders and internal decision-making.

Presentation slides: Available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=2347428

Keywords: earnings quality, FASB, CFO, survey, earnings management

JEL Classification: M4, G38

Suggested Citation:

Dichev, Ilia D. and Graham, John Robert and Harvey, Campbell R. and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Earnings Quality: Evidence from the Field (May 7, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2103384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2103384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Eric J. Allen , Chad Russell Larson , Richard G. Sloan
Accrual Reversals, Earnings and Stock Returns
Pages: 47 Posted: 29 Sep 2009 Last revised: 11 Nov 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10,269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
64,544
RANK
1,217
98 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Myth: External Financial Reporting Quality Has a 1st Order Effect on Firm Value

By Jerold L. Zimmerman

Executives' "Off-The-Job" Behavior, Corporate Culture, and Financial Reporting Risk

By Robert H. Davidson, Aiyesha Dey, ...

Corporate Ostracism: Freezing Out Controlling Shareholders

By Jens Dammann

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies