Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retreating into Doubt: Tainted Finance, Civil Devices and the Rule of Law

9 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2012 Last revised: 28 Jan 2013

Michelle M. Gallant

University of Manitoba

Date Written: July 11, 2012

Abstract

In confronting the financial aspect of crime, states place increasing reliance on civil, in contrast to criminal, legal processes. Sometimes called non-conviction based approaches, civil devices greatly facilitate the assault on finance since they operate in accordance with conventional civil legal principles rather than the norms of the criminal law. Accordingly since the legal ordering governing criminal manners is more exacting that the processes, rights or evidential understandings that apply to civil matters, a civil tool more ably captures tainted finance than any criminal device.

Drawing principally on developments in select common law jurisdictions, particularly Canada, this article offers a critical appraisal of modern civil tools aimed at criminal finance. Part 1 locates the civil strategy within the international anti-criminal finance project. Part 2 introduces the central attributes of the civil mechanisms. Part 3 lays out the essential theoretical tenets of the civil approach and Part 4 examines whether civil devices conform to the rule of law. Part 5 examines taxation as a discrete civil tool.

Keywords: Forfeiture Proceeds of Crime, global taxation

Suggested Citation:

Gallant, Michelle M., Retreating into Doubt: Tainted Finance, Civil Devices and the Rule of Law (July 11, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2103785 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2103785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
781
RANK
841,369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Criminal Law eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies