Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition and Corporate Fraud Waves

48 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2012 Last revised: 6 Aug 2012

Tracy Yue Wang

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

Andrew Winton

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management; Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 10, 2012

Abstract

Our paper examines the effect of product market competition on firms’ incentives to misreport financial information to investors. We examine three specific channels through which product market competition can affect the information environment in an industry and individual firms’ incentives to misreport information. We show that the lack of product market sensitivity to individual firm information tends to encourage fraud commission. The use of relative performance evaluation (i.e., industry benchmarking) in managerial retention decisions also encourages fraud. The lack of information collection about individual firms tends to decrease the probability of fraud detection and increase the probability of fraud commission. All three channels are more likely to be present in more competitive industries, implying that fraud propensity is on average higher in those industries. We show that fraud can help explain the predictable busts in competitive industries. Post-boom poor performance in competitive industries is largely concentrated in firms that are likely to have committed fraud during the booms. The underlying reason is twofold. First, fraud propensity is more cyclical in more competitive industries. Second, the consequence of fraud in competitive industries is particularly bad following booms. Our results suggest that the dynamic of fraud can amplify the cyclical fluctuations in the real economy, particularly in competitive industries.

Keywords: corporate securities fraud, misreporting, product market competition, boom, bust, investment, relative performance evaluation

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Tracy Yue and Winton, Andrew, Competition and Corporate Fraud Waves (April 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2103386 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2103386
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Christopher S Armstrong , Alan D Jagolinzer , David F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Oliver J Board
Competition and disclosure
Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 57 , p. 197 - 213 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Richard Blundell , Rachel Griffith , John Van Reenen
Market share, market value and innovation: Evidence from British manufacturing firms
Review of Economic Studies , volume 66 , p. 529 - 554 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Richard E Caves , David R Barton
Efficiency in US manufacturing industries Posted: 1990
Load more
9 Citations
Xiaoyun Yu
Securities Fraud and Corporate Finance: Recent Developments
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 34 , issue 7-8 , p. 439 Posted: 2013
Crossref
VIKRAMADITYA KHANNA , E. HAN KIM , YAO LU
CEO Connectedness and Corporate Fraud
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 1203 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Larry Li , Adela McMurray
Corporate Fraud Across the Globe
, p. 43 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Tim Lohse , Christian Thomann
Are bad times good news for the Securities and Exchange Commission?
European Journal of Law and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 33 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,361
RANK
56,906
9 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does Corporate Governance Matter in Competitive Industries?

By Xavier Giroud and Holger M. Mueller

Does Corporate Governance Matter in Competitive Industries?

By Xavier Giroud and Holger M. Mueller

Does Corporate Governance Matter in Competitive Industries?

By Xavier Giroud and Holger M. Mueller

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies