Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Fraud Triangle Model

Journal of Emerging Trends in Economics and Management Sciences (JETEMS), Vol. 3, No. 3, pp.191-195, (ISSN: 2141-7024), 2012

Posted: 1 Aug 2012

Rasha Kassem

University of Northampton; Loughborough University

Andrew Higson

Loughborough University

Date Written: June 1, 2012

Abstract

Fraud in corporations is a topic that receives significant and growing attention from regulators, auditors, and the public. Increasingly external auditors are being asked to play an important role in helping organizations prevent and detect fraud. Detecting fraud is not an easy task and requires thorough knowledge about the nature of fraud, how it can be committed and concealed. This paper aims at broadening external auditors’ knowledge about fraud and why it occurs. It explains Cressey’s fraud theory and shows its significance, presents the other fraud models and relates them to Cressey’s model, and proposes a new fraud triangle model that external auditors could consider when assessing the risk of fraud.

Keywords: fraud, fraud triangle, Cressey’s fraud theory, fraud models, fraud detection

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kassem, Rasha and Higson, Andrew, The New Fraud Triangle Model (June 1, 2012). Journal of Emerging Trends in Economics and Management Sciences (JETEMS), Vol. 3, No. 3, pp.191-195, (ISSN: 2141-7024), 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2121206
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,241
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies