Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Greed an Attribute of Fraudster

AIMS International Journal of Management Volume 10, Number 2, May 2016, pp. 83-99

17 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2017

Dr. T N Varma

Computer Society of India (CSI); National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jamshedpur

D. A. Khan

National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jamshedpur

Date Written: August 3, 2012

Abstract

A number of fraud cases shocked the economic markets in the recent past. Fraud is an emerging global problem in private and public organizations and it could not distinguish in its occurrence. The detection and prevention of frauds are challenging for the organization due to adopting and the methods with which the fraud is committed by fraudsters. Detecting fraud is not an easy task and requires in depth knowledge about the nature, modus operandi for auditing, investigating agencies responsible for corporate governance. In year 1953, Cressey had explained three attributes (pressure, opportunity and rationalization) of fraud committer with help of “Fraud Triangle”. In 2004, Wolfe and Hermanson introduced the “Fraud Diamond Model” with addition of another attribute i.e.; capabilities / expertise. The basic theme of this paper would facilitate understanding the fraud and why it occurs with another attribute i.e; greed. Further, an approach is taken for development of a new model “Fraud Five Stars”.

Keywords: Fraud, Fraud Five Stars, Fraud Diamond, Fraud Triangle

Suggested Citation:

Varma, Dr. T. N. and Varma, Dr. T. N. and Khan, D. A., Greed an Attribute of Fraudster (August 3, 2012). AIMS International Journal of Management Volume 10, Number 2, May 2016, pp. 83-99, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2123280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,260
RANK
217,404
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies