Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Revolving Door and the SEC's Enforcement Outcomes: Initial Evidence from Civil Litigation

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2012 Last revised: 30 Jul 2015

Ed deHaan

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Simi Kedia

Rutgers Business School

Kevin Koh

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Nanyang Business School

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: July 20, 2015

Abstract

We investigate the consequences of the “revolving door” for trial lawyers at the SEC’s enforcement division. If future job opportunities motivate SEC lawyers to develop and/or showcase their enforcement expertise, then the revolving door phenomenon will promote more aggressive regulatory activity (the “human capital” hypothesis). In contrast, SEC lawyers can relax enforcement efforts in order to develop networking skills and/or curry favor with prospective employers at private law firms (the “rent seeking” hypothesis). We collect data on the career paths of 336 SEC lawyers that span 284 SEC civil cases against accounting misrepresentation over the period 1990-2007. Our overall evidence is consistent with the “human capital” hypothesis. However, we find some evidence of “rent seeking” when SEC lawyers are based in Washington DC and when defense firms employ more former SEC lawyers. The revolving door likely impacts numerous aspects of SEC regulation setting and enforcement. This study examines accounting-related civil cases and is not able to study administrative or non-accounting enforcement cases. Further, the study does not address the choice of which cases to pursue, the incentives of employees other than trial lawyers, or how the revolving door affects rule making. Subject to these caveats, our study provides an important first look into the effects of revolving door incentives on the SEC’s enforcement process and lays the groundwork for future research.

Keywords: SEC, enforcement, revolving door, financial reporting, lawyers, human capital

JEL Classification: G38, M4

Suggested Citation:

deHaan, Ed and Kedia, Simi and Koh, Kevin and Rajgopal, Shivaram, The Revolving Door and the SEC's Enforcement Outcomes: Initial Evidence from Civil Litigation (July 20, 2015). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2125560 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2125560
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law & Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Bair
Bull by the Horns: Fighting to Save Main Street from Wall Street and Wall Street from Itself Posted: 2012
Y K Che
Revolving doors and the optimal tolerance for agency collusion
The RAND Journal of Economics , p. 378 - 397 Posted: 1995
Crossref
N.K. Chidambaran , Simi Kedia , Nagpurnanand Prabhala
CEO Director Connections and Corporate Fraud
Fordham University Schools of Business Research Paper No. 1787500 Pages: 44 Posted: 22 Mar 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,396
RANK
45,635
55 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The SEC and the Financial Industry: Evidence from Enforcement against Broker-Dealers

By Stavros Gadinis

How Vigorously Will the Sec Enforce Attorney Up-the-Ladder Reporting Rules? An Analysis of Institutional Constraints, Norms, and Biases

By Michael Perino

The Sec as a Lawmaker: Choices About Investor Protection in the Face of Uncertainty

By Donald C. Langevoort

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies