Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Forensic Accounting Experts in Tax Cases as Identified in Court Opinions

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2012

33 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2012 Last revised: 23 Nov 2015

Brigitte Muehlmann

Babson College

Priscilla Ann Burnaby

Bentley University

Martha A. Howe

Bentley University

Date Written: July 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper presents the first comprehensive analysis of what judges have written about forensic accounting experts in federal and state court decisions. The earliest opinion was issued in 1982, but the majority of the cases (31 out of 40) were decided by federal and state courts during the decade from 2001 to 2010. This gives an indication of the emerging role of forensic accounting expert witnesses in tax cases. Understanding the past involvement of forensic accounting experts will assist taxpayers and their legal counsel in evaluating the need for forensic accounting expertise when disputes arise in the future. The results may be summarized as “80-80-80-80-80.” A tax issue was the primary reason for involving a forensic accounting expert in nearly 80% of the cases and 80% of the identified cases related to income tax disputes. The issues were of procedural or administrative nature in over 80% of the cases. The court proceedings were civil in more than 80% of the cases. More than 80% of the forensic accountants served as experts for the taxpayers or third parties. Judges evaluated about half of the forensic accountants’ performance as effective, which signals a potential for substantial improvement. The expert witnesses were not considered to be effective by the judge in the majority of the cases that were decided for the government. When a case was decided for the taxpayer, the expert testimony was always considered to be effective by the judge. The paper also provides insights into the underlying tax issues, the assignments performed by forensic accountants, reasons for ineffective testimony and favorable attributes of forensic accounting experts.

Keywords: tax case, court opinion, forensic accountant, expert witness testimony

JEL Classification: M41, K41, K34, E62, H24, H25, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Muehlmann, Brigitte and Burnaby, Priscilla Ann and Howe, Martha A., The Use of Forensic Accounting Experts in Tax Cases as Identified in Court Opinions (July 1, 2012). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
S Adrogue , A Ratliff
Kicking the Tiresries after Kumho: The Bottom Line on Admitting Financial Expert Testimony
Houston Law Review , volume 37 , p. 431 - 514 Posted: 2000
Aicpa
Business Valuation/Forensic Litigation Services Executive Committee Posted: 2006
Aicpa
Hot Market for Forensic Services
Journal of Accountancy , volume 206 , issue 6 Posted: 2008
R P Beatty , S Riffe , R Thompson
The Method of Comparables and Tax Court Valuations of Private Firms: An Empirical Investigation
Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 177 - 199 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,682
RANK
38,284
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Virtual Tax Library: A Comparison of Five Electronic Tax Research Platforms

By Katherine Pratt, Jennifer M. Kowal, ...

The Virtual Tax Library: A Comparison of Five Electronic Tax Research Platforms

By Katherine Pratt, Jennifer M. Kowal, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies