Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Bargaining Style in Public Company Audits

Journal of Forensic Accounting 1524-5586/Vol.IV (2003), pp. 233-248

16 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2012

Heather Hermanson

Michael J. Coles College of Business

Kurt S. Schulzke

University of North Georgia

G. Richard Shell

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

Prior auditing research has found that negotiation plays an important role in audit outcomes. General purpose negotiating literature suggests that bargaining styles are an important factor in business negotiations and that bargaining style mismatches between negotiating counterparties can influence negotiation results. To date, the role of auditors’ bargaining-style tendencies in audit negotiations has gone unnoticed in the auditing literature. This study examines the bargaining styles of accountants and managers as measured by the Thomas-Kilmann Conflict Mode Instrument (TKI). The results suggest that accountants are predisposed to avoid conflict or accommodate whereas managers are predisposed to collaborate or compete. Recognizing this potential mismatch of bargaining styles should help the auditor to develop more effective negotiation strategies.

Keywords: bargaining style, negotiation, auditing, TKI

JEL Classification: M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Hermanson, Heather and Schulzke, Kurt S. and Shell, G. Richard, The Role of Bargaining Style in Public Company Audits (2003). Journal of Forensic Accounting 1524-5586/Vol.IV (2003), pp. 233-248, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2149583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
W S Albrecht , R J Sack
Accounting education: Charting the course through a perilous future Posted: 2000
The state of the accounting and business environments and effective academic responses thereto Posted: 2000
The CPA vision project 2011 and beyond Posted: 1997
The supply of accounting graduates and the demand for public accounting recruits Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,813
RANK
345,746
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies