Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Fraud, Business Failure and Creative Auditing: A Micro-Analysis of the Strange Case of Sunbeam Corp.

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 12/2012

39 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2012 Last revised: 12 Apr 2013

Marisa Agostini

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Giovanni Favero

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Date Written: September 20, 2012

Abstract

This paper puts under the magnifying glass the path to failure of Sunbeam Corp. and emphasizes the reasons of its singularity and exceptionality. This corporate case emerges as an outlier from the analysis of the US fraud cases mentioned by WebBRD: the consideration of the time between fraud disclosure and the final bankruptcy reveals the presence of an exceptional sampled case. In fact, the maximum value of this temporal variable is estimated equal to 840 days: it is really far from the range estimated by the survival function for the entire sample and it refers to Sunbeam Corp. Different hypotheses are evaluated in the paper, starting from the consideration of Sunbeam's history peculiarities: fraud duration, scapegoating and creative auditing represent the three main points of analysis. Starting from a micro-analysis of this case that the SEC investigated in depth and this work describes in detail, inputs for future research are then provided about more general problems concerning auditing and accounting fraud.

Keywords: accounting fraud, failure path, creative auditing, historical micro-analysis

JEL Classification: M41, M42, N80, N82, M48

Suggested Citation:

Agostini, Marisa and Favero, Giovanni, Accounting Fraud, Business Failure and Creative Auditing: A Micro-Analysis of the Strange Case of Sunbeam Corp. (September 20, 2012). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 12/2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2149552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
M Agostini
Two common steps in firms' failing path: a survival analysis through annual reports information. Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Posted: 2012
S Aliabadi , H Chen , A Dorestani
Fair value determination. A conceptual framework
Journal of Accounting, Business and Management , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 107 Posted: 2011
E I. ; O Altman , J Blake , J Dowds
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Ethical issues in accounting , volume 23 , p. 25 - 40 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A statement of basic auditing concepts Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,904
RANK
28,004
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies