Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Management Internal Control Certifications Increase the Likelihood of Restatement-Related Litigation?

48 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2012 Last revised: 26 Apr 2013

Chris E. Hogan

Michigan State University; Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Tamara A. Lambert

Lehigh University

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: April 24, 2013

Abstract

Although the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes internal control disclosure and certification requirements on management, regulators are concerned that companies are not disclosing material internal control weaknesses on a timely basis. This study investigates whether litigation risk could act as a mechanism to incentivize timely material weakness disclosure. Examining material weakness and restatement disclosures from 2003 – 2011, we find that restatement-related litigation is significantly greater for firms with material weakness disclosures regardless of when the material weakness was disclosed (i.e., during the misstated time period or following the restatement announcement). In fact, we find that over 75 percent of lawsuits allege that management falsely certified internal controls regardless of whether the material weakness was disclosed during or after the misstated time period. While we do not find evidence that internal control-related arguments are associated with the resolution of litigation, our results generally indicate that SOX-mandated internal control certifications are increasing litigation costs without providing management with an incentive to disclose material weaknesses on a timely basis.

Keywords: internal control weaknesses, class-action litigation, financial statement restatements, disclosure timeliness

Suggested Citation:

Hogan, Chris E. and Hogan, Chris E. and Lambert, Tamara A. and Schmidt, Jaime J., Do Management Internal Control Certifications Increase the Likelihood of Restatement-Related Litigation? (April 24, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2169553 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2169553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , M Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Audit Analytics
SOX 404 Dashboard Year 6 Update Posted: 2010-10
J C Bedard , L Graham
Detection and severity classifications of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 internal control deficiencies
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 825 - 855 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M D Beneish , M B Billings , L D Hodder
Internal control weaknesses and information uncertainty
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 665 - 703 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,187
RANK
133,528
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies