Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entropic Analysis in Financial Forensics

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XI, No. 3, pp. 42-57, July 2012

Posted: 8 Nov 2012

Y. V. Reddy

Goa Business School, Goa University

Sebastin Aloysious

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 7, 2012

Abstract

Digital analysis has become an accepted tool for computer forensic examination of suspicious financial transactions. A major component of digital analysis is Benford’s Law which postulates that in accounting data not subject to substantial error or fraud, significant digits are not uniformly distributed and that smaller digits occur more often than larger digits as significant digits. In this paper, entropy-based mutual information is proposed to decide whether a dataset conforms to Benford distribution or not. If the dataset is found to deviate from Benford distribution, further analysis may be made into the authenticity of data entries.

Suggested Citation:

Reddy, Y.V. and Aloysious, Sebastin, Entropic Analysis in Financial Forensics (November 7, 2012). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XI, No. 3, pp. 42-57, July 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2172194
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,158
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies