Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Drivers in the Use of Online Whistle-Blowing Reporting Systems

Journal of Management Information Systems, Vol. 30(1), pp. 153-189 (doi: 10.2753/MIS0742-1222300105)

61 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2012 Last revised: 9 Sep 2013

Paul Benjamin Lowry

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Gregory D Moody

University of Nevada, Las Vegas - College of Business

Dennis Galletta

University of Pittsburgh and Director, Katz Doctoral Program

Anthony Vance

Virginia Tech

Date Written: September 30, 2013

Abstract

Online whistle-blowing reporting systems (WBRS) are becoming increasingly prevalent channels for reporting organizational failures. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and similar international laws require firms to establish whistle-blowing (WB) procedures and WBRS, thus increasing the importance of WB research and applications. Although the literature has addressed conventional WB behavior, it has not explained and measured the use of WBRS in online contexts that could significantly affect perceptions of anonymity, trust, and risk for those using such reporting tools. Addressing these opportunities, this study proposes the WBRS model (WBRS-M). Using actual working professionals in an online experiment of hypothetical scenarios, we empirically test WBRS-M for reporting computer abuse and find that anonymity, trust, and risk are highly salient in the WBRS context. Our findings suggest that we have an improved WB model with increased explanatory power. We show that organizations can increase WB by enhancing WBRS users’ perceptions of trust and anonymity. We also demonstrate that anonymity is richer than a mere lack of identification, which is not as important in this context as other elements of anonymity.

Keywords: Whistle-blowing, whistle-blowing reporting systems, organizational governance, organizational failure, computer abuse, anonymity, trust, IT artifacts, risk

Suggested Citation:

Lowry, Paul Benjamin and Moody, Gregory Daniel and Galletta, Dennis and Vance, Anthony, The Drivers in the Use of Online Whistle-Blowing Reporting Systems (September 30, 2013). Journal of Management Information Systems, Vol. 30(1), pp. 153-189 (doi: 10.2753/MIS0742-1222300105), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2173643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
S Ancona , W Van Maneen
Managing the Future: Organizational Behavior and Processes Posted: 2004
K A Barchard , J Williams
Practical advice for conducting ethical online experiments and questionnaires for United States psychologists
Behavior Research Methods , volume 40 , p. 1111 - 1128 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R J Bennett , S L Robinson
Development of a measure of workplace deviance
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 85 , p. 349 - 360 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M E Bergman , R D Langhout , L M Cortina , L F Fizgerald
The (un)reasonableness of reporting: Antecedents and consequences of reporting sexual harassment
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 87 , p. 230 - 242 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,995
RANK
403,165
2 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow

Employment Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Using Accountability to Reduce Access Policy Violations in Information Systems

By Anthony Vance, Paul Benjamin Lowry, ...

Taking ‘Fun and Games’ Seriously: Proposing the Hedonic-Motivation System Adoption Model (HMSAM)

By Paul Benjamin Lowry, James Gaskin, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies