Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pork Bellies and Public Company Audits: Have Audits Once Again Become Just Another Commodity?

45 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2012 Last revised: 9 Sep 2014

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Marjorie K. Shelley

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 5, 2014

Abstract

Prior research has established that from 2000 to 2007, auditors incorporated clients’ financial reporting risk in their pricing of audit engagements (Charles et al. 2010; Doogar et al. 2010, 2013). However, regulators have expressed concern that the economic downturn and pressure from clients to reduce audit fees has had a negative impact on auditor effort. Our evidence suggests a marked decline in the pricing of financial reporting risk during the 2006-2010 period, further suggesting a reduced focus on the risk of misreporting during that period. This decline is particularly evident among non-industry expert auditors. Connecting these findings to audit quality, we observe a higher likelihood of subsequent accounting restatements among clients whose financial reporting risk appears to be insufficiently incorporated in audit fees, particularly among clients of small audit firm offices. Our results are consistent with a return to the commoditization of financial statement audits and its negative impact on audit quality.

Keywords: Audit fees, financial reporting risk, fee pressure, economic downturn, auditor expertise

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Brant E. and Omer, Thomas C. and Sharp, Nathan Y. and Shelley, Marjorie, Pork Bellies and Public Company Audits: Have Audits Once Again Become Just Another Commodity? (September 5, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2184413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2184413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,958
RANK
35,535
15 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies