Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT Fraud & Triangulation

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-52

20 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2012 Last revised: 14 Jan 2013

Richard Thompson Ainsworth

NYU - Graduate Tax Program; Boston University - School of Law

Date Written: December 7, 2012

Abstract

Missing trader intra-community (MTIC) fraud has received a lot of domestic enforcement attention. True cross border enforcement (joint or coordinated multi-Member State audit) has been limited. There are signs that this is changing as the Member States become more aggressive in their search for revenue.

Along with this shift in enforcement focus, triangulation analysis has moved from being an interesting aspect of the MTIC fraud structure to the central element in a larger understanding of how a fraudster thinks and how he carries out his fraud. We are coming to understand that triangulations are not only the mechanism of how the fraud is carried out; they are a cloak of invisibility that the fraudster casts upon his fraud to hide it from the authorities.

Germany for example, is currently engaged in a multi-billion euro fraud investigation involving the triangulation of consumer goods and CO2 certificates. The Augsburg District Court is overseeing the investigation.

The Augsburg investigation is not only uncovering triangulations that “hide the goods,” but it is also uncovering sophisticated payment platforms that “hide the money transfers.” The intent of these structures is to make the fraud fully invisible to the authorities (goods and funds) until after the trader has disappeared.

The breadth of the German investigation is breathtaking, but with the Mutual Assistance for the Recovery of Claims (MARC) Directive, in effect as of January 1, 2012, this kind of comprehensive multi-jurisdictional MTIC investigation may be becoming the new norm. If so, triangulations will most certainly be at its core.

This paper focuses on the developing law. It explains triangulation, triangulation simplification, and then considers several recent court decisions where fraudsters manipulated the VAT system with triangular trades. The cases illustrate both the enforcement problems with triangular trades, and highlight how the courts’ examination of triangular frauds is leading to significant developments in the VAT law. Three cases are drawn from the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), and three are from national courts.

Keywords: VAT, EU, Missing Trader Fraud, Triangulation, Simplified triangulation, Teleos, Facet and X, Mexcom, Mecsek-Gabona

JEL Classification: K10, K34

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Richard Thompson, VAT Fraud & Triangulation (December 7, 2012). Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-52, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2186474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2186474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Mecsek-Gabona
at ¶ ¶14-15 & 20 Argo-Trade had a valid VAT ID at the time of the contract Posted: 2009-04-17
Crossref
Mecsek-Gabona
, volume 16
Mecsek-Gabona
at ¶20 (indicating that Argo-Trade never paid Italian VAT)
Crossref
Approximately $157,886.06 and $157 , p. 481 - 513
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
521
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,129
RANK
123,344
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies