Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Audit Committee in Raising the Efficiency of the Internal Control System to Combat Money Laundering in Jordanian Banks

Posted: 19 Dec 2012

Reem Oqab Kasswna

Independent

Date Written: December 17, 2012

Abstract

The Study Objectives: This study aims to indicate the role of the Audit Committee in raising the efficiency of the internal control system to combat money laundering through the tasks assigned to evaluate internal control systems, and support the work of internal audit department in considering internal control systems to combat money laundering and in developing the appropriate mechanism to ensure the bank compliance with application of anti-money laundering instructions. It also aims to support the external Audit in evaluating the bank procedures and policies related to internal control system for anti-money laundering, and the bank administration compliance with the application of the provisions of anti-money laundering law and the report thereto in the annual report.

Methodology of the Study: To achieve the objectives of the study, the researcher has used the approach in order to achieve the objectives of the study. The inductive approach has been used that is based on collecting, analyzing and interpreting the study key elements data in order to build its theoretical framework depending on accounting and audit literature that addressed the issue of the Audit Committee and internal control systems for anti-money laundering and deductive approach which is based on making a questionnaire on the Audit Committee activities to raise the efficiency of internal control systems to combat money laundering. These activities have been distributed to the Audit Committee member, the internal auditor and external auditor.

The Study Results: - The Audit Committee contributes at high degree to raising the efficiency of the internal control system to combat money laundering in the Jordanian banks through its activities in evaluating the internal control system.

- The Audit Committee contributes at high degree to raising the efficiency of the internal control system to combat money laundering in the Jordanian banks through its activities in support of the internal audit function.

- The Audit Committee contributes at a high degree to raising the efficiency of the internal control system to combat money laundering in the Jordanian banks through its activities in support of the external audit.

Keywords: The Audit Committee, Internal Control System, Money Laundering

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Kasswna, Reem Oqab, The Role of the Audit Committee in Raising the Efficiency of the Internal Control System to Combat Money Laundering in Jordanian Banks (December 17, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2190427
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,114
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies