Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Fraud Risk, Trustworthiness, Reliability, and Truthfulness: Integrating Audit Evidence from Multiple Sources

Posted: 11 Jan 2013

Meghann Cefaratti

Northern Illinois University - Department of Accountancy

Sudip Bhattacharjee

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: January 11, 2013

Abstract

As directed by SAS 99 (AICPA, 2002), fraud risk assessment is an iterative process that begins with the recognition of initial fraud risk factors and then involves interviewing senior financial personnel (e.g., CFO) to explain the financial results and nonfinancial operating personnel to corroborate information obtained from the financial personnel. Prior research has not examined if auditors can combine evidence from workpaper documentation with interviews with multiple entity personnel to appropriately update their truthfulness and fraud risk assessments in a situation where management seeks to conceal fraud. In this study, 67 auditors, across professional ranks, completed a case based on an actual fraud. The presence or absence of fraud was manipulated. Auditors received and evaluated audit evidence in three stages -- after receiving client background information, client inquiry evidence from senior financial personnel, and inquiry evidence from operating personnel. The results show that auditors were not able to appropriately differentiate between the fraud and no fraud conditions after the initial review of financial statements and fraud risk factors and after the review of the information provided by the senior financial personnel, even when the financial personnel were being deceptive. However, when auditors received inconsistent (consistent) audit evidence from operating personnel, they appropriately increased (decreased) their fraud risk assessments and decreased (increased) their trustworthiness, reliability, and truthfulness judgments of financial personnel. Further analysis indicates that auditors with prior experience with fraud had heightened awareness of fraud early in the process based only on fraud risk factors and client deception. We extend research on deception detection by demonstrating auditors’ ability to appropriately detect fraud and assess client truthfulness when presented with evidence from a corroborating source. These findings also provide evidence on SAS 99’s recommendation for the use of client inquiry, but only when integrated with other audit evidence.

Keywords: Fraud Risk, Deception

Suggested Citation:

Cefaratti, Meghann and Bhattacharjee, Sudip, Assessing Fraud Risk, Trustworthiness, Reliability, and Truthfulness: Integrating Audit Evidence from Multiple Sources (January 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2199502
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,647
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies