Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountant's Perception of Forensic Accounting (Case Study of Iran)

Global Journal of Management and Business Research, Volume 12, Issue 6, Version 1.0, March 2012

5 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2013

Hassan Zadeh

Independent

Morteza Ramazani

Young Researchers and Elite Club, Zanjan Branch, Islamic Azad University, Zanjan, Iran

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Forensic accounting is considered as a specialized field of accounting relating frequently to legal problems (claims) and complaints. Forensic accountants usually called as forensic audits or detector accountants are bound to provide other specialists with required evidence in law counts. This study looks for to investigate the rate of accountants’ perception of forensic accounting considering the fact that as accountants’ perception of financial rules increases the number of firms which refer to law courts for their financial complaints will be reduced. Research method is descriptive based on which the author has used Lickret 5 options questionnaire to satisfy research goals. The research results indicate the low level of accountants’ perception of forensic accounting methods in which the author provide some recommendations to enhance the accountants’ perception of forensic accounting.

Keywords: forensic accounting, accountants’ perception, Iran

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zadeh, Hassan and Ramazani, Morteza, Accountant's Perception of Forensic Accounting (Case Study of Iran) (2012). Global Journal of Management and Business Research, Volume 12, Issue 6, Version 1.0, March 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2199969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
T A Buckhoff , R W Schrader
The teaching of forensic accounting
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 146 Posted: 2000
D L Crumbley
Forensic accounting: Older than you think
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 202 Posted: 2001
S M Groomer , J Heintz
A survey of advanced auditing courses in the United States and Canada. Issues in Accounting Education , volume 9 , p. 96 - 108 Posted: 1994
J L Harrison
Reconceptualizing the Expert Witness: Social Costs, Current Controls and Proposed Responses
Yale Journal on Regulation , volume 18 , p. 1 - 46 Posted: 2001
Load more
1 Citations
Peterson K Ozili
Forensic Accounting Research Around the World
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming · 42 Pages · Posted: 29 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 949
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
904
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,471
RANK
60,157
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies