Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expectation Gap and Corporate Fraud: Is Public Opinion Reconcilable with Auditors’ Duties?

CAAA Annual Conference 2013

37 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2013

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Yuan Ding

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Cédric Lesage

JMSB

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: January 15, 2013

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to answer the key question of whether auditors’ view of their fraud detection duties is reconcilable with the public’s view. We perform a content analysis of press articles covering 37 U.S. corporate fraud cases discovered during the period 1992-2005. We compare the auditors’ duties (as described by the auditing standards) with the public opinion represented by these press articles. Consistent with Porter (1993), we identify three types of divergence between public expectations and auditing standards: deficient performance (that we label “Type 1”), deficient standards (“Type 2”) and unreasonable expectations (“Type 3”). The Type 1 gap can be reduced by strengthening auditors’ willingness and ability to apply existing auditing standards on fraud detection. The Type 2 gap can be narrowed by improving the existing auditing standards. The Type 3 gap, however, concerns highly subjective criteria beyond the auditors’ usual sphere of control. The results of our analysis confirm that the expectation gap is unlikely to disappear given that the rational auditor is unable or unwilling to assess the subjective components of fraudulent behavior, and that value judgments, as demonstrated in the media, retain their popularity.

Keywords: expectation gap, corporate fraud, management behavior, Fraud-related professional standards

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Ding, Yuan and Lesage, Cédric and Stolowy, Hervé, Expectation Gap and Corporate Fraud: Is Public Opinion Reconcilable with Auditors’ Duties? (January 15, 2013). CAAA Annual Conference 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2201023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2201023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
E Ackerman , C Kang
Silicon valley software company sinks under its own ambition. Knight Ridder Tribune Business News Posted: 2001-02-15
F Ahrens
History of conflict for ex-Rite Aid chief; indictment paints picture of Grass as an arrogant bully. The Washington Post Posted: 2002-06-22
Aicpa
Statement on auditing standards (SAS) No. 53: The auditor's responsibility to detect and report errors and irregularities Posted: 1988
Aicpa
Statement on auditing standards (SAS) No. 82: Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit Posted: 1997
Load more
1 Citations
Ewald Aschauer , Matthias Fink , Andrea Moro , Katharina van Bakel-Auer , Bent Warming-Rasmussen
Trust and Professional Skepticism in the Relationship between Auditors and Clients: Overcoming the Dichotomy Myth
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 19 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
983
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,727
RANK
53,636
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?

By I. J. Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies