Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Accounting Frauds and the Timing of Analyst Coverage Decisions and Recommendation Revisions: Evidence from the US

Fordham University Schools of Business Research Paper

67 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2013

Susan M. Young

Fordham University

Emma Y. Peng

Fordham University - Accounting Area

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper provides a comprehensive exploration of the types of accounting fraud committed by firms over the period 1995-2009. Using detailed data from US SEC Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAER), we examine the likelihood and timing of analyst coverage decisions and recommendation revisions related to fraud firms versus firms without accounting fraud. We find that analysts have a higher probability of taking the more severe action of dropping coverage rather than only revising down recommendations for firms with any type of accounting fraud and also for specific egregious types of accounting fraud. Through the use of competing hazards models, we also find that accounting frauds and their egregiousness are positively (negatively) associated with the timeliness of the analysts’ action to drop coverage (revise only). Overall, we find that analysts’ actions may be useful in determining the occurrence of accounting fraud prior to the public announcement of the fraud.

Keywords: accounting fraud, analyst coverage, financial misreporting, recommendations

JEL Classification: M41, M8

Suggested Citation:

Young, Susan M. and Peng, Emma Y., An Analysis of Accounting Frauds and the Timing of Analyst Coverage Decisions and Recommendation Revisions: Evidence from the US (January 1, 2013). Fordham University Schools of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2202393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2202393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis, and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968-09
Crossref
M E Barth , A P Hutton
Analyst Earnings Forecast Revisions and the Pricing of Accruals
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 96 Posted: 2004-03
Crossref
M Barth , R Kaznyck , M Mcnichols
Analyst Coverage and Intangible Assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S B Block
A Study of Financial Analysts: Practice and Theory
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 55 , issue 4 , p. 86 - 95 Posted: 1999-07
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Jesper Sørensen
Shorting Fraud
, p. 135 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
559
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,515
RANK
113,025
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies