Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Fraud Detection: An Analysis of Statistical and Machine Learning Algorithms

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 30, No. 2, 2011

Posted: 25 Jan 2013

Johan Perols

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy; University of San Diego - School of Business Administration

Date Written: March 21, 2010

Abstract

This study compares the performance of six popular statistical and machine learning models in detecting financial statement fraud under different assumptions of misclassification costs and fraud firm to non-fraud firm ratios. The results show, somewhat surprisingly, that logistic regression and support vector machines perform well relative to artificial neural network, bagging, C4.5 and stacking. The results also reveal some diversity in predictors used across the classification algorithms. Out of 42 predictors examined, only 6 are consistently selected and used by different classification algorithms: auditor turnover, total discretionary accruals, Big 4 auditor, accounts receivable, meeting or beating analyst forecasts, and unexpected employee productivity. These findings extend financial statement fraud research and can be used by practitioners and regulators to improve fraud risk models.

Keywords: Analytical auditing, Financial statement fraud, Fraud detection, Fraud predictors, Classification algorithms

Suggested Citation:

Perols, Johan, Financial Statement Fraud Detection: An Analysis of Statistical and Machine Learning Algorithms (March 21, 2010). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 30, No. 2, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2206572
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,714
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies