Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accountants, Forensic Accounting Certifications, and Due Diligence

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2013

22 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2013

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Previous research has established that some corporations that issue certifications in forensic accounting fail to disclose their legal status and the qualifications of their Officers and Board of Directors. Previous research also established that a significant number of forensic accountants have inaccurate beliefs about the legal status of the corporations and the qualifications their Officers and Directors. This study investigates whether forensic accountants exercised due diligence in investigating the corporations that issued their certifications prior to obtaining their certifications. The results of a survey show that forensic accountants failed to exercise due diligence in their investigation of the corporations that issued their certifications. The failure of forensic accounting corporations to disclose important information coupled with the failure of forensic accountants to exercise due diligence in investigating the corporations suggests there is a need for reform within the forensic accounting profession.

Keywords: Forensic accountants, forensic accounting certifications, due diligence, forensic accounting corporations

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, Forensic Accountants, Forensic Accounting Certifications, and Due Diligence (2013). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2210016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Peterson K Ozili
Forensic Accounting Research Around the World
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming · 42 Pages · Posted: 29 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 949
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,731
RANK
16,793
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies