Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting Corporations' Codes of Ethics and Standards of Practice: A Comparison

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, 9(2), 126-152, 2013

27 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2013 Last revised: 13 Dec 2016

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This is the first study to critically compare the Codes of Ethics and Standards of Practice of forensic accounting corporations and whether forensic accountants understand the difference between the Codes and Standards. This study examines the extent to which forensic accountants are knowledgeable about forensic accounting corporations Codes and Standards, and whether they are able to differentiate the differences between them. A survey of 182 forensic accountants found that a significant number of forensic accountants did not investigate the Codes and Standards prior to receiving their certifications. The results further revealed that a significant number of forensic accountants incorrectly believe that the Codes and Standards are substantially similar when they are significantly different. This raises questions regarding forensic accountants’ investigative ability. It raises further questions concerning forensic accountants’ commitment to maintaining high ethical standards and standards of practice. The results suggest a need for reform within the forensic certification industry, for the establishment of an independent agency to monitor and accredit forensic accounting corporations and their certifications, or alternatively for state or Federal regulations to enforce minimum standards for forensic accounting corporations and the certifications.

Keywords: Forensic Accountants, Forensic Accounting Corporations, Certifications, Codes of Ethics, Standards of Practice

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, Forensic Accounting Corporations' Codes of Ethics and Standards of Practice: A Comparison (2013). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, 9(2), 126-152, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Practice Aid 07-1 Forensic Accounting -Fraud Investigations Posted: 2007-04
Crossref
Code of Professional Conduct
AICPA Posted: 2010-04
Code of Professional Conduct
AICPA Posted: 2010-04
AICPA Code of Professional Conduct -Current and Historical Versions
AICPA Posted: 2010-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,698
RANK
203,475
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Forensic Accountants, Codes of Ethics and Forensic Accounting Corporations

By Wm. Dennis Huber

Does the American Accounting Association Exist? An Example of Public Document Research

By Wm. Dennis Huber

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies