Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Misleading Forecasts in Accounting Estimates: An Ethical Blind Spot?

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2230692

Posted: 10 Mar 2013

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Kathryn Bewley

Ryerson University - Ted Rogers School of Management

Ulfert Gronewold

University of Potsdam

Ulrich Menzefricke

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 15, 2013

Abstract

The current reporting environment with its increasing use of accounting estimates, including fair value estimates, suggests that unethical accounting estimates may be a growing problem. This paper provides explanations and empirical evidence for why some types of accounting estimates in financial reporting may represent ethical blind spots. These types of ethical blind spots in can have an escalating effect that corrupts not only an individual or organization but also the accounting profession and the public interest it serves. Ethical blind spots in financial reporting are thus a factor in the ‘tone at the top’ that has taken on new urgency as a result of the recent acquittal of former Nortel executives on fraud charges related to accounting manipulations. The Nortel verdict is viewed by many as legitimizing accounting gamesmanship in Canada’s capital markets. The social consequences for users of financial statements can be huge. This decision illustrates that the courts may not be the best place to deal with ethical reporting issues. The courts may be relied for only the most egregious unethical conduct and, even then, the accounting profession is ill equipped to assist the legal system in prosecuting accounting fraud. We argue that the problem of unethical reporting should be addressed by the accounting profession itself, preferably as a key part of a conceptual framework in ethical financial reporting.

Keywords: unethical financial reporting, ethical blind spots, forecasts in accounting estimates, accounting risk

Suggested Citation:

Smieliauskas, Wally and Bewley, Kathryn and Gronewold, Ulfert and Menzefricke, Ulrich, Misleading Forecasts in Accounting Estimates: An Ethical Blind Spot? (January 15, 2013). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2230692, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2230692
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,737
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies