Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Price Fixing Benefit Corporate Managers?

NYU Working Paper No. FIN-13-002

University of St.Gallen, School of Finance Research Paper No. 2013/9

56 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2013 Last revised: 28 Oct 2017

Tanja Artiga González

VU University Amsterdam

Markus Schmid

University of St. Gallen - Swiss Institute of Banking and Finance; University of St. Gallen - School of Finance; Swiss Finance Institute; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

David Yermack

New York University (NYU) - Stern School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 12, 2017

Abstract

We study the effects of cartel participation on top corporate managers. Although a strong public interest exists in regulating price fixing, we find little evidence that either corporate governance or the legal system holds managers of cartel firms accountable. Instead, managers of cartel firms enjoy greater job security, receive higher cash bonuses, and extract more ex post compensation through timely exercise of stock options. Legal sanctions against individual managers are infrequent, with enforcement actions focused on corporations rather than their officers. Managers appear to use concealment strategies actively to limit detection of cartel membership by their boards and auditors.

Keywords: Cartels, price fixing, corporate governance, executive compensation

JEL Classification: D43, G34, K42, L40, M43

Suggested Citation:

Artiga Gonzalez, Tanja and Schmid, Markus and Yermack, David, Does Price Fixing Benefit Corporate Managers? (September 12, 2017). NYU Working Paper No. FIN-13-002, University of St.Gallen, School of Finance Research Paper No. 2013/9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2230771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2230771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
F S Peters , A F Wagner
The executive turnover risk premium
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 1529 - 1563 Posted: 2014
Crossref
K W Shaw , M H Zhang
Is CEO cash compensation punished for poor firm performance?
Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 1065 - 1093 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Shleifer , R W Vishny
Large shareholders and corporate control
Journal of Political Economy , volume 94 , p. 461 - 488 Posted: 1986
Crossref
D Yermack
Higher market valuation of companies with a small board of directors Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,239
RANK
42,678
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

The Economics of Fraudulent Accounting

By Simi Kedia and Thomas Philippon

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies