Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Objectivity and Independence: The Dual Roles of External Auditors and Forensic Accountants

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Volume 6 Issue 2 July - December 2014

28 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2013 Last revised: 16 Jun 2015

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: March 11, 2013

Abstract

This paper is aimed at illustrating that certain capacities exist whereby the dual role of the external auditor (in undertaking internal audit roles as well as skilled persons roles) could be exercised to the optimal and maximum benefit of an entity or organisation. It also aims to accentuate on why a return to and focus on traditional auditing techniques, as well as auditing techniques which focus on internal controls is a much needed move. In so doing, it contributes to the extant literature by highlighting why such a move should be facilitated, as well as proposing means whereby such a move would be facilitated - namely, through a focus on benefits which could be derived where the external auditor is able to incorporate certain internal audit responsibilities. The paper also draws attention to safeguards which require due consideration if the ever important attributes of objectivity and independence are not to be compromised. Risks associated with the overlapping roles of testifying and consulting experts in Forensic Accounting will also be considered in this paper.

Whilst the benefits and potentials of the dual roles assumed by external auditors are emphasized, as well as the need to ensure that safeguards operating to guard against a compromise of objectivity and independence are in place, authors' opinions in support of dual roles also take into consideration the utmost priority of ethical values. The paper hence also highlights the fact that such dual roles are appropriate in certain cases – as illustrated by justifications for limitations imposed by the Sarbanes Oxley Act and other relevant and applicable legislation – even though instances also persist where section 201 of Sarbanes-Oxley, with regard to internal audit outsourcing, may have been over-reactionary and may continue to hinder both companies and their auditors.

Keywords: independence, objectivity, Sarbanes Oxley Act, FSMA section 166, ISA 610, Amended Rule 26 (Federal Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 26)

Suggested Citation:

DiGabriele, James A. and Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Objectivity and Independence: The Dual Roles of External Auditors and Forensic Accountants (March 11, 2013). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Volume 6 Issue 2 July - December 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2231524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2231524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
S S Ahlawat , J D Lowe
An Examination of Internal Auditor Objectivity: In-House versus Outsourcing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , p. 147 - 58 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Iii Aldhizer , G R , J D Cashell , D R Martin
Internal Audit Outsourcing
The CPA Journal , volume 8 , p. 30 - 55 Posted: 2003
M Al-Harshani
The Effect of Inherent Risk, Knowledge Spillover, and Litigation Risk on External Auditors' Reliance on Client's Internal Audit Functions
Diss. University of Arkansas. Auditing Practices Board Posted: 2003
Work/Publications/APB/ES-1-(Revised)-Integrity,-objectivity-and-inde , issue 1
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Sandhya Jayasena , Roshan Ajward , Hareendra Dissabandara
The Audit Expectations Gap and the Role of Audit Education: Evidence from Sri Lanka
Vidyodaya Journal of Management, 2017, Vol. 03(1) 01-26. · 26 Pages · Posted: 10 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 542
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
946
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,069
RANK
56,479
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies