Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of Forensic Accountants to Planning Management Fraud Risk Detection Procedures

Global Journal of Management and Business Research, Vol. 13, Issue 1, Version 1.0, 2013

Posted: 24 Mar 2013

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

D.O. Gbegi

Kogi State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 15, 2013

Abstract

The study of the evaluation of forensic accountants to planning management fraud risk detection procedures aimed at investigating the relative merits of involving forensic accountants during the planning stage of developing an audit plan that will effectively identify management fraud. Both primary and secondary sources of data were used for the study. Thirty five copies questionnaire were distributed to accountants in Kogi state, out of which 31 were filled and returned. Simple percentages mean and standard deviation were used to quantify the height of the variable. Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA) and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) were used for the comparison of the study with Asare and Wright (2004) study. The study found out that, Forensic Accountants effectively modify the extent and nature of audit test when the risk of management fraud is high, Forensic accountants propose unique procedures that are not proposed by auditors when the risk of management fraud is high, Forensic Accountants can make to the effectiveness of an audit plan when the risk of management fraud is high, involving forensic accountants in the risk management fraud assessment process leads to better results than simply consulting them. The study recommended that forensic accountants should be involved n the planning state of an audit, before and after the auditor has identified management fraud risk factors. There is need for more training and accreditation of forensic accountants in Nigeria.

Keywords: forensic accountants, planning, management fraud, risk detection, investigating

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Gbegi, D.O., An Evaluation of Forensic Accountants to Planning Management Fraud Risk Detection Procedures (January 15, 2013). Global Journal of Management and Business Research, Vol. 13, Issue 1, Version 1.0, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
621
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,674
RANK
98,680
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

CSR & Management Practice eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies