Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Listing Standards and Fraud

Managerial and Decision Economics, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2013

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Sofia Johan

Florida Atlantic University - Finance; University of Vaasa; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

Date Written: March 31, 2013

Abstract

Statistics reporting litigated cases of fraud on an exchange-by-exchange basis are not readily available to investors. This paper introduces data from three countries with multiple exchanges operating under different listing standards – Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States – to show litigated cases of fraud significantly vary by country, and the different exchanges within the country. Comparisons are also made to Brazil, China and Germany to assess out-of-sample inferences. The data examined suggest there are significant differences in the nature of observed fraud across exchanges within the United States; by contrast, outside the United States there appears to be a comparative lack of enforcement. The data also suggest policy implications for the ways in which fraud should ideally be reported to improve investor knowledge, market transparency and market quality.

Keywords: Corporate fraud, Exchange listing standards, Securities commissions, NYSE, NASDAQ, TSX, TSXV, LSE, AIM, PinkSheets

JEL Classification: G32, J33

Suggested Citation:

Cumming, Douglas J. and Johan, Sofia A., Listing Standards and Fraud (March 31, 2013). Managerial and Decision Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2242449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
G Becker
Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Cassels Blakes , Llp Graydon
Accessing the Canadian Capital Markets: Legal Considerations for Non-Canadian Mining and Oil and Gas Companies Posted: 2010-07
Hans-Peter Burghof , Adrian Hunger
Access to Stock Markets for Small and Medium-Sized Growth Firms: The Temporary Success and Ultimate Failure of Germany's Neuer Markt
Pages: 30 Posted: 9 Feb 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Carpentier , D J Cumming , J M Suret
The Value of Capital Market Regulation: IPOs versus Reverse Mergers
Journal of Empirical Legal Studies , volume 9 , p. 56 - 91 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,294
RANK
368,155
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Insider Trading Restrictions and Analysts' Incentives to Follow Firms

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

Public and Private Enforcement of Securities Laws: Resource-Based Evidence

By Howell E. Jackson and Mark J. Roe

Do Insider Trading Laws Work?

By Arturo Bris

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies