Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Construction of a Trustworthy Investment Opportunity: Insights from the Madoff Fraud

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

HEC Paris Research Paper No. 971/2013

63 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2013 Last revised: 15 Apr 2013

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Martin Messner

University of Innsbruck

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Charles Richard Baker

Adelphi University - School of Business

Date Written: March 9, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, we use the investment fraud of Bernard Madoff to inquire into the production of trust in the context of financial markets. Drawing upon empirical data related to U.S. individual investors (interviews and letters) as well as documentary material, we investigate the mechanisms through which investing with Madoff came to be seen as a trustworthy investment opportunity. We show how different types of information contributed to construct Bernard Madoff as a trustworthy investment manager and how Madoff avoided meeting demands for accountability by manipulating investors in face-to-face encounters. We shed particular light on the role of institution-based forms of trust which play a critical role in facilitating economic exchanges. More specifically, we suggest that the Madoff case illuminates how the provision of information can lead to an “illusion of trustworthiness” that is difficult to escape for investors. An element of such illusion, we suggest, is inherent to the functioning of financial markets more generally.

Keywords: Madoff, trustworthiness, illusion, financial markets

JEL Classification: G1, G3, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Stolowy, Hervé and Messner, Martin and Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas and Baker, Charles Richard, The Construction of a Trustworthy Investment Opportunity: Insights from the Madoff Fraud (March 9, 2013). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. 971/2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2245700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2245700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
A Ackerman
House panel's head backs budget increase for SEC The Wall Street Journal
Available at Posted: 2011-09-15
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Alesina , E La Ferrara
Who trusts others?
Journal of Public Economics , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 234 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Alvesson
Beyond neopositivists, romantics, and localists: A reflexive approach to interviews in organizational research
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 33 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Luc Paugam , Hervé Stolowy , Yves Gendron
Deploying Narrative Economics to Understand Financial Market Dynamics: An Analysis of Activist Short Sellers’ Rhetoric
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2020-1401 · 81 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 24 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 542
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,354
RANK
122,782
1 Citations
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Future of Securities Regulation

By Luigi Zingales

The Future of Securities Regulation

By Luigi Zingales

The Future of Securities Regulation

By Luigi Zingales

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies