Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Demonstrating the Need to Include Multiple Firms in Forensic Accounting Research

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, 4 (1): 84-121, 2012

Posted: 14 Apr 2013

Samantha Messier

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This study examines the probability of fraud estimates of auditors from five firms to test the need to include multiple firms in empirical forensic accounting research. We used an older data set as sample sizes of about 500 auditors participating in a four-hour exercise are rare in today's research environment. This research tested for differences among firms, staff levels and gender to determine whether differences could occur among auditing firms. While our analysis indicated no difference among firms for managers, there were significant differences among firms on an overall basis and for seniors. Finally, we also found a significant difference between male and female auditors "probability of fraud estimates. Although there were no difference between male and female seniors" levels of moral development (ethical sensitivity), there were significant differences between male and female managers' levels of moral development. Consequently, our premise of including multiple firms in empirical forensic accounting research was supported.

Suggested Citation:

Messier, Samantha and Bernardi, Richard A., Demonstrating the Need to Include Multiple Firms in Forensic Accounting Research (2012). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, 4 (1): 84-121, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2250192
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,027
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies