Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud: A Review and Research Agenda

Accountancy Business and the Public Interest, 2011, Vol. 10: 138-178

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper

38 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2013 Last revised: 1 Nov 2016

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Poh-Sun Seow

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Themin Suwardy

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Evelyn Gay

Independent

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Corporate scandals such as Enron, Tyco, WorldCom and Adelphia have drawn significant attention to the occurrence of fraud. This has implications for public interest as the prevalence and consequences of fraud may affect the shareholders, creditors and the public’s confidence in the financial system. Much research has been published on various aspect of fraud. In this paper, we selected fraud articles published in accounting and management journals between 1996 and 2010 based on selected search phrases. We identified a total of 56 articles and perform content analysis on the fraud phenomenon in the articles, classified them into a number of fraud topics and eventually developed three fraud themes that encapsulate the fraud literature in the selected articles. The fraud themes from our content analysis are (1) Factors, Motivations and Antecedents of Fraud, (2) Auditor’s Role in Fraud Detection and Prevention, and (3) Information Technology Fraud. In addition, we also noted how the research was done and what we have learned from the research that could help researchers better understand fraud. The opportunities identified from this review may allow researchers to explore important research agenda.

Keywords: Fraud, Corporate Scandal, Content Analysis

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Gary and Seow, Poh-Sun and Suwardy, Themin and Gay, Evelyn, Fraud: A Review and Research Agenda (2011). Accountancy Business and the Public Interest, 2011, Vol. 10: 138-178, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2253182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
C Agoglia , T Kida , D Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
Crossref
W Albrecht , C Albrecht , C Albrecht
Fraud and Corporate Executives: Agency, Stewardship and Broken Trust
Journal of Forensic Accounting , issue 5 , p. 109 - 130 Posted: 2004
C Albrecht , W Albrecht , J Dunn
Conducting a pro-active fraud audit: a case study
Journal of Forensic Accounting , issue 2 , p. 203 - 218 Posted: 2001
W Albrecht , K Howe , M Romney
Deterring Fraud: The Internal Auditor's Perspective
The Institute of Internal Auditors' Research Foundation Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,524
RANK
159,379
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies