Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Masculinity, Testosterone, and Financial Misreporting

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

86 Pages Posted: 16 May 2013 Last revised: 10 Sep 2014

Yuping Jia

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management - Accounting Department

Laurence van Lent

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management

Yachang Zeng

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 25, 2014

Abstract

We examine the relation between a measure of male CEOs’ facial masculinity and financial misreporting. Facial masculinity is associated with a complex of masculine behaviors (including aggression, egocentrism, risk-seeking, and maintenance of social status) in males. One possible mechanism for this relation is that the hormone testosterone influences both behavior and the development of the face shape. We document a positive association between CEO facial masculinity and various misreporting proxies in a broad sample of S&P1500 firms during 1996–2010. We complement this evidence by documenting that a CEO’s facial masculinity predicts his firm’s likelihood of being subject to an SEC enforcement action. We also show that an executive’s facial masculinity is associated with the likelihood of the SEC naming him as a perpetrator. We find that facial masculinity is not a measure of overconfidence. Finally, we demonstrate that facial masculinity also predicts the incidence of insider trading and option backdating.

Keywords: Financial misreporting, neuroendocrinology, testosterone exposure, craniofacial growth, facial structure

JEL Classification: M12, M20, M40, M50, Z00

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Yuping and van Lent, Laurence and Zeng, Yachang, Masculinity, Testosterone, and Financial Misreporting (August 25, 2014). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2265510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2265510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Population Genetics Perspective
PLoS ONE , volume 8 Posted: 2013
John Robert Graham , Campbell R. Harvey , Manju Puri
A Corporate Beauty Contest
Duke I&E Research Paper No. 16-10 Pages: 26 Posted: 15 Mar 2010 Last revised: 29 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J R.; C R Graham , M Harvey , Puri
Managerial Attitudes and Corporate Actions
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2012
Crossref
W H Greene , ; Analysis , W V Harlow , K C Brown
Understanding and assessing financial risk tolerance: a biological perspective
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 46 , p. 50 - 62 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,261
RANK
28,370
62 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies