Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Fraud Examination and Forensic Investigations of Government Entities and Private Organizations in Cameroon

94 Pages Posted: 20 May 2013 Last revised: 26 May 2013

Dr. Abangma Ferdinand Enoayuk

University of Bamenda; ENEO Cameroon; Standard Chartered Bank

Date Written: January 10, 2013

Abstract

Investigating financial fraud examination, interviews are often conducted, audits, and other accounting tools to reap relevant information that piles up evidence and clues in detecting the lapses and root cause that stimulated the fraud. For this process to be effective the interviewer has to come up with tactics in conducting the interview to determine if an interviewee is being truthful or not. Before an interview is conducted, at least two people should be involved in the process, one person will be more involved in the interview process and basic jotting and also concentrating on the interviewee countenance when he or she respond to the questions while the other forensic expert will be recording the response from the interviewee. At the end of the interview both forensic experts can analyze whether the interviewee was lying or not. The minimum or basic tools that are needed for the interview to be conducted should involve the interview schedule, a checklist, an audio recording device, a pen for jotting, a laptop or palmtop. The commonest internal highlights that are easy routes to fraud flow are weaknesses in corporate governance, internal control of designed processes and their lapses, failed examination and recommendation of potentially alleged loopholes for operational risk measures.

Keywords: Fraud Examination, Interviewer, Interviewee, Forensic Expert, corporate governance, operational risk measures, internal control, processes

JEL Classification: J43

Suggested Citation:

Enoayuk, Dr. Abangma Ferdinand, Financial Fraud Examination and Forensic Investigations of Government Entities and Private Organizations in Cameroon (January 10, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2267363 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2267363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
The nature of the forensic accounting investigation requires a skillful knowledge in accounting, finance, banking, auditing and the legal framework
Aaron S Gabriel
The Effectiveness of Internal Auditing: An Empirical Examination of its Determinants in Israeli Organizations
Australian Accounting Review Posted: 2010
F Adegbie , A S Fakile
Economic and Financial Crime in Nigeria: Forensic Accounting as Antidote
British Journal of Arts and Social Sciences , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 2046 - 9578 Posted: 2012
A Anup , C Shabiba
XLVIII. The University of Chicago. All rights reserved
Journal of Law and Economics Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,357
RANK
174,026
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies