Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Privacy Disclosure and Auditing: An Exploratory Study

40 Pages Posted: 30 May 2013 Last revised: 17 Sep 2014

Penica Cortez

University of Auckland

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: September 3, 2014

Abstract

This paper reports a study of privacy breaches in the U.S. from 2005-2011. We explore potential benefits of data privacy disclosure and auditing. Privacy auditing is a mechanism to help organisations to be vigilant in protecting information privacy, and to avoid penalties or damage to reputation and loss of customer trust. Recently, privacy audits have been imposed on several high-profile organizations, but little is known about the benefits of privacy audits. We examine whether companies with privacy disclosures in their audited financial statements (as a proxy for privacy audits) are more or less likely to incur subsequent privacy breaches, and whether companies incurring breaches are more or less likely to make privacy disclosures. The results show that there are empirical regularities. For most types of breach, and in our overall results, companies suffering a breach of privacy are more likely to disclose privacy risks afterwards. For some types of breach (unintended disclosure), disclosure of the risks is negatively related to subsequent privacy breaches although for some other types (intentional insider disclosure), disclosure before a breach is positively related to subsequent breaches. These results show that privacy disclosure in the audited financial statements is associated with certain types of privacy breaches and disclosure in the regulation section is associated with a greater number of records affected by the breach. There are potential benefits from greater use of privacy disclosure and auditing, and this area is worthy of further investigation.

Keywords: Privacy auditing, Data privacy

JEL Classification: L86, M41, O34

Suggested Citation:

Cortez, Penica and Hay, David, Privacy Disclosure and Auditing: An Exploratory Study (September 3, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2271871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2271871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J Angwin , A Efrati
Google Settles With FTC Over Google Buzz
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2011
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Beatty
Auditor Reputation and the Pricing of Initial Public Offerings
The Accounting Review , volume 64 , p. 693 - 709 Posted: 1989-10
J E Boritz , W G false
E-Commerce and Privacy: Exploring What We Know and Opportunities for Future Discovery
Journal of Information Systems , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 11 - 45 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Shwadhin Sharma , Robert E. Crossler
Disclosing too much? Situational factors affecting information disclosure in social commerce environment
Electronic Commerce Research and Applications , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 305 Posted: 2014
Crossref
David Hay
The Future of Auditing
18 Pages · Posted: 25 Apr 2013 · Last revised: 13 Jun 2013 · Downloads: 1,021
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alan Toy , David C. Hay
Privacy Auditing Standards
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 181 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Alan Toy , David Lau , David Hay , Gehan Gunasekara
The views of privacy auditors regarding standards and methodologies
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 366 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
604
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,744
RANK
102,328
4 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies