Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ties that Bind: The Decision to Co-Offend in Fraud

56 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2013 Last revised: 24 Jun 2013

Clinton Free

University of Sydney Business School

Pamela R. Murphy

Queen's University - Smith School of Business; Queen's University

Date Written: June 7, 2013

Abstract

It is frequently observed that fraud has a greater economic impact on society than any other category of crime. Arguing that both research and practitioner frameworks in auditing and forensic accounting have tended to adopt an individualizing perspective predicated primarily on solo-offending, this article adopts an inductive approach to consider why individuals co-offend in fraud. It reports the results of a set of interviews with 37 individuals convicted of a range of frauds including financial statement fraud, insider trading, credit card fraud, money laundering and asset misappropriation. In each instance, the fraud was perpetrated by a group of two or more co-offenders. Based on inductive, exploratory case coding, we find that reasons for co-offending vary according to the type of bond that exists between co-offenders. Two dimensions of fraudulent co-offending are identified – the primary beneficiary of the fraud and the nature of group attachment – to derive three distinct archetypes of bonds between co-offenders: (i) individual-serving functional bonds, (ii) organization-serving functional bonds and (iii) affective bonds. Key elements of each archetype as well as their impact on the decision to co-offend are examined. Our findings suggest that the social nature of fraud is not merely an incidental feature of the crime, but is instead a potential key to understanding its etiology and some of its distinctive features. They also support the need for diagnostic tools to move beyond individualistic analyses of fraud toward a broader, group sensitive assessment of fraud risk.

Keywords: Fraud, Co-offending, Functional Bonds, Affective Bonds, Fraud Triangle

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Free, Clinton Wallace and Murphy, Pamela R., The Ties that Bind: The Decision to Co-Offend in Fraud (June 7, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2275750 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2275750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
Final report of the advisory committee on the auditing profession Posted: 2008
L Alarid , J Burton , A Hochstetler
Group and solo robberies: Do accomplices shape criminal form
Journal of Criminal Justice , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2009
Crossref
W Albrecht , C Albrecht
Fraud examination and prevention Posted: 2004
M Andreson , M Felson
The impact of co-offending
British Journal of Criminology , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 81 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,090
RANK
246,297
5 Citations
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies