Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asia's Enron: Satyam (Sanskrit Word for Truth)

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2012

34 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2013

Elisabetta Basilico

International Center of Corporate Governance

Hugh Grove

University of Denver

Lorenzo Patelli

University of Denver - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the 2009 scandal of Satyam, one of India’s largest information technology companies and provider of computer software and business process outsourcing to large companies around the world; including General Motors, Nestlé, and General Electric. We discuss financial and non-financial red flags. Specifically, we apply five financial fraud prediction measures and examine corporate governance elements. The results of our analyses suggest the importance of integrating financial and non-financial indicators. Supplementing financial indicators with non-financial red flags enables us to present the reverse KISS principle by Hilb (2005).

Keywords: corporate governance, financial fraud

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Basilico, Elisabetta and Grove, Hugh and Patelli, Lorenzo, Asia's Enron: Satyam (Sanskrit Word for Truth) (2012). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2277512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M Beneish
The Detection of Earnings Manipulation
Financial Analyst's Journal , p. 24 - 36 Posted: 1999-10
Crossref
Excerpt from Panel Discussion at the Jindal Global Law School Posted: 2009-02-13
W Buffett , Ceo Letter
Berkshire and Hathaway Annual Reports, 2004-present. Code of Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Associates Posted: 2008
T Cook , H Grove
Stock Market Reactions to Allegations of Fraud and Earnings Management
Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting , volume 2 , issue 2 Posted: 2009-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,037
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,544
RANK
49,788
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies