Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Major Financial Reporting Frauds of the 21st Century: Corporate Governance and Risk Lessons Learned

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Vol. 3, Issue 2, Special Issue, 2011

36 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2013

Hugh Grove

University of Denver

Elisabetta Basilico

International Center of Corporate Governance

Date Written: November 30, 2011

Abstract

Major financial reporting frauds of the 21st Century are studied in this paper for lessons learned and strategies to reduce the incidence of such frauds in the future. As Howard Schilit observed: “I read recently that the one lesson we have learned from history is that we have learned nothing from history. Yet my mantra remains that in order to find fraud, we must study the history of fraud. A common element in all the fraud I have described is that their warning signs were not hard to find; in fact, they were hard to miss."

Keywords: financial fraud, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Grove, Hugh and Basilico, Elisabetta, Major Financial Reporting Frauds of the 21st Century: Corporate Governance and Risk Lessons Learned (November 30, 2011). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Vol. 3, Issue 2, Special Issue, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2277524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
of Forensic & Investigative Accounting , volume 3 Posted: 2011
Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting , volume 3 Posted: 2011
/ Price , Book
Common Share Price / Book Value per Share Book Value per Share = Total Stockholders' Equity / Basic Common Shares Outstanding Benchmarks: S&P 500
Price/Earnings = Common Share Price/Diluted Earnings per Share Diluted EPS = Net Income / Common Shares Outstanding + Stock Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting , volume 3 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,386
RANK
37,161
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Fraudulent Financial Reporting and Companies' Characteristics: Evidence from Tax Audit

By Norsiah Ahmad, Juahir Mohd-nor, ...

Post Fraud: An Empirical in Malaysia

By Sherliza Puat Nelson

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies