Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Psychopathy and Accounting Students’ Attitudes towards Unethical Professional Practices

41 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2013 Last revised: 18 Dec 2015

Charles D. Bailey

James Madison University

Date Written: December 17, 2015

Abstract

Psychopathy is a personality trait characterized by deficits of conscience and empathy, leading to callous attitudes and manipulative behavior, and is one of the “Dark Triad” of personality variables, along with Machiavellianism and narcissism. It has gained some attention in accounting literature, and clearly has serious implications for fraud and unethical behavior by accountants and auditors. Using a national sample of accounting students, this study documents the levels of this personality variable, the correlations with certain attitudes about unethical professional practices, and potential differences across age, gender, and academic class level. Comparisons are made to previous samples of college students, accounting faculty, prisoners, and the general population. The responses of individuals high on the scale are described to provide insight into the attitudes and beliefs of those individuals. Implications for the theory and practice of fraud and forensic accounting are discussed.

Keywords: fraud, fraud triangle, psychopathy, dark triad, accounting students

Suggested Citation:

Bailey, Charles D., Psychopathy and Accounting Students’ Attitudes towards Unethical Professional Practices (December 17, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2279976 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2279976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
P Babiak
Industrial psychopaths: Organizational manipulation and career success
P. Babiak (Chair), Shining light on the dark side: Psychopaths in organizations. Symposium conducted at the 11 th Annual Conference of the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology Posted: 1996
P Babiak
B-Scan 360: Development of a measure of psychopathy for organizations Posted: 2005
B Craig
chair) Illuminating the Dark Side: Tools for Assessing Destructive Leadership. Symposium presented at the 20th annual conference of the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology in
Crossref
P Babiak
From darkness into the light: Psychopathy in industrial and organizational psychology
The Psychopath: Theory, Research, and Practice , p. 411 - 428 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
551
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,222
RANK
115,073
5 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cognition & Culture: Culture, Communication, Design, Ethics, Morality, Religion, Rhetoric, & Semiotics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies