Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Health Care Fraud: An Introduction to a Major Cost Issue

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 14, No. 3, 2013

19 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2013

James Byrd

University of Alabama at Birmingham

Paige Powell

University of Alabama at Birmingham

Douglas Smith

University of Montevallo

Date Written: June 26, 2013

Abstract

Fraud affects all businesses and industries, but when health care is viewed as a single industry including hospitals, physicians, insurers, pharmaceuticals, etc., fraud in this single industry assumes a monumental identity. Malcolm Sparrow of Harvard University affirmed that the order of magnitude of health care fraud is measured in the hundreds of billions, and provided a range of $100-$600 billion. While fraud is typically discussed in financial terms, some health care industry frauds have an element that is absent in most other industries, i.e., individuals’ health and lives may be affected. This paper provides a definitional understanding of health care fraud, defines specific frauds, and categorizes health care frauds into four types; describes the unique non-financial consequences of health care fraud; and discusses efforts to mitigate health care fraud.

Readers should benefit from greater awareness of health care fraud, that could be helpful in developing more effective fraud control processes.

Keywords: accounting, healthcare, fraud

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Byrd, James and Powell, Paige and Smith, Douglas, Health Care Fraud: An Introduction to a Major Cost Issue (June 26, 2013). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 14, No. 3, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2285860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General and the American Health Lawyers Association
Corporate Responsibility and Health Care Quality: A Resource for Health Care Boards of Directors , p. 6 - 977 Posted: 2006
S Barrett
Insurance Fraud and Abuse: A Very Serious Problem
Quackwatch: Your Guide to Quakery, Health Fraud, and Intelligent Decisions: Quackwatch Posted: 2008
S R Goldberg , S C Lindquist
Fighting Costly Health Care Fraud. The Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , p. 29 - 34 Posted: 2005-05
A S Kesselheim , D M Studdert
WhistleblowerInitiated Enforcement Actions Against Health Care Fraud and Abuse in the United States
Annals of Internal Medicine , volume 149 , issue 5 , p. 342 - 349 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,724
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,749
RANK
23,455
7 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies