Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Pharmaceutical Research Manipulation in the Context of Accounting Manipulation

Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics, Vol. 14, No. 3, 2013

27 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2013

Abigail B. Brown

Government Accountability Office

Date Written: June 21, 2013

Abstract

Good decision-making — for stock holders and medical practitioners alike — requires reliable information. As for profit, publicly traded companies whose business is discovering, manufacturing, and marketing drugs; pharmaceutical companies sit at the nexus of business and medicine. In medicine, relevant information comes from clinical trials and other forms of scientific research. Because the science underlying the products the pharmaceutical industry sells is inherently highly ambiguous, it is vulnerable to manipulation. This manipulation is in the service of what is essentially accounting fraud — the omission of material information that affects the valuation of the enterprise. This article places these behaviors in the wider context of information manipulation in the pursuit of accounting profits. This framework helps us consider how best to improve the quality of medical research and analysis, given the current system of scientific information production. In particular, I identify three ways to better identify — or prevent — misinformation at three points in the information production process.

Keywords: pharmaceutical research, accounting fraud, research fraud, public policy

JEL Classification: I12, I18, I19

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Abigail B., Understanding Pharmaceutical Research Manipulation in the Context of Accounting Manipulation (June 21, 2013). Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics, Vol. 14, No. 3, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2286446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
L Cosgrove
Drug Firms, Codification of Diagnostic Categories & Bias in Clinical Guidelines
Journal of Law, Medicine, and Ethics , volume 41 , issue 3 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S L Rose
Patient Advocacy Organizations: Institutional Conflicts of Interest, Trust, and Trustworthiness
Journal of Law, Medicine, and Ethics , volume 41 , issue 3 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D W Light , J Lexchin , J Darrow
Institutional Corruption of Pharmaceuticals and the Consequences for Patients
Journal of Law, Medicine, and Ethics , volume 41 , issue 3 Posted: 2013
S Sismondo
Key Opinion Leaders and the Corruption of Medical Knowledge: What the Sunshine Act Will and Won't Cast Light On
Journal of Law, Medicine, and Ethics , volume 41 , issue 3 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
625
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,091
RANK
97,900
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Curbing Misconduct in the Pharmaceutical Industry: Insights from Behavioral Ethics and the Behavioral Approach to Law

By Yuval Feldman, Rebecca Gauthier, ...

Drug Firms, the Codification of Diagnostic Categories, and Bias in Clinical Guidelines

By Lisa Cosgrove and Emily Wheeler

Rooting Out Institutional Corruption to Manage Inappropriate Off-Label Drug Use

By Marc A. Rodwin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies