Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Pervasiveness and Severity of Tunneling by Controlling Shareholders in China

China Economic Review, Vol. 21, No. 2, 2010

24 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2013

Guoping Li

Central University of Finance and Economics, Beijing China

Date Written: February 2, 2010

Abstract

This article investigates tunneling by controlling shareholders in China’s public companies, and finds that, first, tunneling is pervasive and severe; and, second, private controlling ownership significantly increases the severity of tunneling. This article argues that in China, where there is not sufficient and effective legal protection for investors, controlling shareholders, especially shareholders of privately controlled public companies, are able to conduct tunneling at minimal costs. Further, corporate governance mechanisms alone are not sufficient to protect minority shareholders.

Keywords: Privatization, Tunneling, Corporate Governance, Private Controlling Ownership, State-Owned Enterprise Reform

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Guoping, The Pervasiveness and Severity of Tunneling by Controlling Shareholders in China (February 2, 2010). China Economic Review, Vol. 21, No. 2, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2288650 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2288650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Some findings of the survey are available on the website of Xinhua News Agency, the official news agency of China's central government Posted: 2009-05-08
Miao Yu , Guo Shengkun , Wei Liucheng , Zhang Chunran , Mi Yanfeng , Xiao Yaqing , Li Xiaopeng
These people are also on the Central Commission of CCP, politically the most elite group in China. Managers of SOEs who currently do not have positions in the governments but are alternate members of the Central Commission of CCP include Guo Shuqing
An incomplete list of managers of SOEs who have been appointed by CCP to deputy-minister or minister level positions in the government since 1997 includes , volume 63 , p. 13 - 62 Posted: 2001
Conventional wisdom of private enterprises must be discarded
China Business Times Posted: 2005-08-04
Juliet D&apos;ouza , William Megginson
The financial and operating performance of privatized firms during the 1990s
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 1397 - 1438 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Agung Juliarto , Gregory Tower , Mitchell Van der Zahn , Rusmin Rusmin
Modeling regulatory and competitive business environments’ influence on tunneling behavior
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 420 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,648
RANK
564,093
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Insider Trading Restrictions and Analysts' Incentives to Follow Firms

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

Public and Private Enforcement of Securities Laws: Resource-Based Evidence

By Howell E. Jackson and Mark J. Roe

Do Insider Trading Laws Work?

By Arturo Bris

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies