Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation and Corporate Fraud in China

48 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2013

Martin Conyon

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; Bentley University

Lerong He

SUNY College at Brockport

Date Written: July 11, 2013

Abstract

This study investigates the relation between CEO compensation and corporate fraud in China. We document a significantly negative correlation between CEO compensation and corporate fraud using data on publicly traded firms between 2005 and 2010. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the firm’s owners and the board of directors penalize CEOs for fraud by awarding lower pay. We also find that executive compensation is lower in firms that commit more severe frauds. Panel data fixed effects and propensity score methods are used to demonstrate these effects. We also show that CEOs of privately controlled firms, firms that split the posts of CEO and chairman, and CEOs of firms located in developed regions, suffer larger compensation penalties for committing financial fraud. Finally, we show that CEOs at firms that commit fraud are more likely to be replaced (lose their jobs) compared to non-fraud firms.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, China

Suggested Citation:

Conyon, Martin and He, Lerong, Executive Compensation and Corporate Fraud in China (July 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2292549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2292549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
P Adithipyangkul , I Alon , T Zhang
Executive perks: compensation and corporate performance in China
Asia Pacific Journal of Management , volume 28 , p. 401 - 425 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Agarwal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Almer , A Gramling , S Kaplan
Impact of post-restatement actions taken by a firm on non-professional investors' credibility perceptions
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 80 , p. 61 - 76 Posted: 2008
Crossref
F Allen , J Qian , M J Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,251
RANK
148,252
29 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation and Corporate Governance in China

By Martin Conyon and Lerong He

CEO Compensation and Corporate Governance in China

By Martin Conyon and Lerong He

Corporate Governance and CEO Compensation in China

By Oliver M. Rui, Michael Firth, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies