Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Value Signal Extraction and the Misapplication of SFAS 133 in the U.S. GSE's

19 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2013

Apostolos Xanthopoulos

Date Written: July 1, 2010

Abstract

The misapplication of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 133 in the U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises had obscured the first signals of trouble in mortgage securities. Still, regulators should have detected signals using their market value of equity measure, after statistical modification of related balance sheet accounts. The nonlinearity in this measure would imply that any implementation by management would significantly understate the exposure of portfolio equity to interest rate changes.

Keywords: Logistic Regression, Prepayments, Principal Components, SFAS 133

JEL Classification: C53, G18, H83

Suggested Citation:

Xanthopoulos, Apostolos, Market Value Signal Extraction and the Misapplication of SFAS 133 in the U.S. GSE's (July 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2296344 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2296344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
549,043
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Single Equation Models eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Rise in U.S. Household Indebtedness: Causes and Consequences

By Karen E. Dynan and Donald L. Kohn

Do Households Benefit from Financial Deregulation and Innovation? The Case of the Mortgage Market

By Kristopher Gerardi, Harvey S. Rosen, ...

Do Households Benefit from Financial Deregulation and Innovation? The Case of the Mortgage Market

By Kristopher Gerardi, Harvey S. Rosen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies