Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Market Efficiency for Reliance on the Fraud-on-the Market Doctrine After Wal-Mart and Amgen

Forthcoming in Research in Law and Economics

51 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2013 Last revised: 13 Dec 2013

Mukesh Bajaj

Navigant Economics LLC

Sumon Mazumdar

Navigant Economics, LLC; University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Daniel A. McLaughlin

Sidley Austin LLP

Date Written: December 12, 2013

Abstract

Following the Supreme Court’s 1988 decision in Basic, securities class plaintiffs can invoke the “rebuttable presumption of reliance on public, material misrepresentations regarding securities traded in an efficient market” [the “fraud-on-the market” doctrine] to prove class-wide reliance. Although this requires plaintiffs to prove that the security traded in an informationally efficient market throughout the class period, Basic did not identify what constituted adequate proof of efficiency for reliance purposes.

Market efficiency cannot be presumed without proof because even large publicly-traded stocks do not always trade in efficient markets, as documented in the economic literature that has grown significantly since Basic. For instance, during the recent global financial crisis, lack of liquidity limited arbitrage (the mechanism that renders markets efficient) and led to significant price distortions in many asset markets. Yet, lower courts following Basic have frequently granted class certification based on a mechanical review of some factors that are considered intuitive “proxies” of market efficiency (albeit incorrectly, according to recent studies and our own analysis). Such factors have little probative value and their review does not constitute the rigorous analysis demanded by the Supreme Court.

Instead, to invoke fraud-on-the market, plaintiffs must first establish that the security traded in a weak-form efficient market (absent which a security cannot, as a logical matter, trade in a “semi-strong form” efficient market, the standard required for reliance purposes) using well-accepted tests. Only then do event study results, which are commonly used to demonstrate “cause and effect” (i.e., prove that the security’s price reacted quickly to news --- a hallmark of a semi-strong form efficient market) have any merit. Even then, to claim class wide reliance, plaintiffs must prove such cause and effect relationship throughout the class period, not simply on selected disclosure dates identified in the complaint as plaintiffs often do.

These issues have policy implications because, once a class is certified, defendants frequently settle to avoid the magnified costs and risks associated with a trial, and the merits of the case (including the proper application of legal presumptions) are rarely examined at a trial.

Keywords: securities fraud class actions, class certification, reliance, fraud-on-the market, informational efficiency, market efficiency tests, Cammer factors, event studies, limits to arbitrage, financial crisis

JEL Classification: G14, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bajaj, Mukesh and Mazumdar, Sumon and McLaughlin, Daniel A., Assessing Market Efficiency for Reliance on the Fraud-on-the Market Doctrine After Wal-Mart and Amgen (December 12, 2013). Forthcoming in Research in Law and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2302734 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2302734
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
WSJ Update: JPMorgan To Buy Most Ops of Washington Mutual
Dow Jones News Service Posted: 2008-09-25
Robert Schroeder
Goldman, Morgan to become holding companies, Companies get access to Fed lending in exchange for oversight
MarketWatch Posted: 2008-09-21
See Shleifer and Vishny Posted: 1997
Crossref
Hedge funds in trouble: The incredible shrinking funds
The Economist , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2008-10-23
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,288
RANK
256,420
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Materiality and Magnitude: Event Studies in the Courtroom

By David Tabak and Frederick C. Dunbar

The Global Financial Crisis and the Efficient Market Hypothesis: What Have We Learned?

By Ray Ball

The Efficient Markets Hypothesis: The Demise of the Demon of Chance?

By Stephen J. Brown

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies