Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors and Audit Committees Lower Fraud Risk by Constraining Inconsistencies between Financial and Nonfinancial Measures?

47 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2013 Last revised: 13 Dec 2017

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: December 13, 2017

Abstract

Prior research finds that companies committing fraud exhibit large inconsistencies between reported revenue growth and growth in revenue-related nonfinancial measures (e.g., number of stores, employees, patents). However, prior research also suggests that auditors, on average, are not adept at identifying and constraining these differences. This study investigates whether certain auditors and audit committees are able to lower fraud risk by constraining inconsistencies between financial and related nonfinancial measures (NFMs). For a sample of companies across a variety of industries, we find that auditors with greater industry expertise and tenure and audit committee chairs with greater tenure are less likely to be associated with companies that exhibit large inconsistencies between their reported revenue growth and related NFMs. Surprisingly, we observe that audit committees with industry expert chairs are more likely to be associated with large inconsistencies (higher fraud risk) than audit committees without industry expert chairs. Our results suggest that the audit process can constrain fraud risk, but that not all forms of audit committee expertise are beneficial.

Keywords: Audit, Audit Committee, Fraud Risk, Non-Financial Measures

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Schmidt, Jaime J., Do Auditors and Audit Committees Lower Fraud Risk by Constraining Inconsistencies between Financial and Nonfinancial Measures? (December 13, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2306104 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2306104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 88 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Badolato , D Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M Beasley , J Carcello , D Hermanson
Fraudulent Financial Reporting Posted: 1998
Load more
1 Citations
Patrick Velte
The link between audit committees, corporate governance quality and firm performance: A literature review
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 15 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
712
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,215
RANK
82,779
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies