Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securities Fraud and Corporate Finance: Recent Developments

Managerial Decision and Economics, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2013

Xiaoyun Yu

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR)

Date Written: April 2013

Abstract

In this paper, I survey the recent research in corporate finance on financial securities frauds. I structure my review around three subjects in this literature: studies on internal and external factors that elicit managerial incentives for fraudulent activities, studies on regulatory and market-based mechanisms that help to deter or detect fraud and on what affects the efficiency of such mechanisms, and studies on the economic and social consequences of financial fraud. I outline the empirical challenges related to this line of research and discuss opportunities for future studies.

Keywords: corporate fraud, corporate governance, literature review

JEL Classification: G3, K42

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Xiaoyun, Securities Fraud and Corporate Finance: Recent Developments (April 2013). Managerial Decision and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2307587
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: a conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Anup Agrawal , Tommy Cooper
Insider Trading Before Accounting Scandals
Forthcoming, Journal of Corporate Finance, 2015 Pages: 57 Posted: 16 Apr 2008 Last revised: 2 Sep 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Accounting scandals in IPO firms: do underwriters and VCs help?
Journal of Economics and Management Strategy , volume 19 , p. 1117 - 1181 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,202
RANK
115,900
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stock-Related Compensation and Product-Market Competition

By Giancarlo Spagnolo

Managerial Incentives and Collusive Behavior

By Giancarlo Spagnolo

Ownership, Control and Collusion

By Giancarlo Spagnolo

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies