Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting, Fraud Theory, and the End of the Fraud Triangle

Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, 12(2), 28-48, 2017

21 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2016 Last revised: 28 Aug 2017

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

Defenders of the fraud triangle have risen to the challenges of the many criticisms of the fraud triangle, mostly be ignoring them. Criticisms notwithstanding, the fraud triangle has endured and has formed the basis of fraud theory since its origination to this day.

Yet, the elements of the fraud triangle (or any geometric shape of choice) as originally developed and modified, have been misused, abused, contorted, stretched out of shape, and pressed into uses for which it was never intended and cannot possibly accommodate.

This paper analyzes the geometry of fraud theory and argues that forensic accounting researchers and practitioners must recognize it cannot explain fraud and must consider that there are n-dimensions of financial crime that must be accounted for in any model that attempts to explain, predict, prevent, detect, and prosecute financial crimes, of which fraud is merely a subset.

Keywords: forensic accounting, fraud triangle, fraud diamond, fraud theory, financial crimes, fraud

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, Forensic Accounting, Fraud Theory, and the End of the Fraud Triangle (June 1, 2016). Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, 12(2), 28-48, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Peterson K Ozili
Forensic Accounting Theory
Finance, Insurance and Risk Management Theory and Practices, Vol. 1, Emerald, 2020 · 16 Pages · Posted: 25 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 1,296
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wm. Dennis Huber , James A. DiGabriele
Financial Statement Fraud and the Failure of Corporate Financial Statement Fraud Prediction
14 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 6 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 419
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,861
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,298
RANK
10,412
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies