Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers’ Unethical Fraudulent Financial Reporting: The Effect of Control Strength and Control Framing

Journal of Business Ethics 129 (2) June 2015

50 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2014 Last revised: 19 Apr 2017

Xiaotao Kelvin Liu

DMSB - Accounting

Arnold Wright

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Yi-Jing Wu

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Date Written: December 11, 2013

Abstract

In response to numerous recent cases involving materially misstated financial information arising from fraudulent financial reporting, companies, auditors, and academics have increased their focus on strengthening internal controls as a means of deterring such unethical behaviors. However, prior research suggests that stronger controls do not necessarily reduce the very opportunistic behavior the controls are intended to curb. The current study investigates whether the efficacy of an implemented control is conditioned on not only the strength of the control (weaker or stronger), but also on how the firm frames the purpose for implementing the control (e.g., monitoring or coordinating). A monitoring purpose frames controls as reducing managers’ opportunities to engage in self-interested behavior, while a coordinating purpose frames controls as facilitating coordination between the firm and its managers. We posit that the efficacy of stronger controls to reduce unethical fraudulent reporting depends on the control frame. Using an experiment, this study investigates the interactive effect of control strength and control frame on managers’ fraudulent reporting decisions. As predicted, our results show that when controls are framed for monitoring purposes, stronger controls result in less fraudulent reporting than weaker controls. Conversely, when controls are framed for coordinating purposes, stronger controls result in more fraudulent reporting than weaker controls. Our results suggest that an inconsistency between the firm’s choice of the control strength and the control frame reduces the efficacy of the implemented control to curb unethical reporting behaviors. Furthermore, supplemental analysis shows that managers’ rationalization helps explain the interactive effect of control strength and communicated control purpose on fraudulent reporting.

Keywords: Unethical behavior; Fraudulent financial reporting; Fraud triangle; Rationalization; Internal controls

JEL Classification: M41, M49, G31, G34

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Xiaotao Kelvin and Wright, Arnold and Wu, Yi-Jing, Managers’ Unethical Fraudulent Financial Reporting: The Effect of Control Strength and Control Framing (December 11, 2013). Journal of Business Ethics 129 (2) June 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2473452
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
AICPA)
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
P Arvind , P Pranil , P Joyti
Survey of computerized internal control features in small businesses and its relationship to detected fraud
Advances in Management , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 25 Posted: 2010
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse: 2012 Global fraud study Posted: 2012
R Audi
Self-deception, rationalization and reasons for acting Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,276
RANK
185,725
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies