Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting: An Anglo-American Comparison – Forensic Accounting in the U.S.A.

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 6, Issue 3, Special International Issue, 2014, pp. 154-170.

17 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2014

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: November 11, 2014

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to discuss the state of forensic accounting in the United States as part of a series comparing forensic accounting in Anglo-American countries. For comparative purposes it is necessary first to establish the legal, geographic, political, and economic background of forensic accounting in the U.S. This is followed by a review of the Constitutional, judicial, legal, and regulatory framework of forensic accounting in the United States. Finally, the forensic accounting profession and the forensic industry in the United States is reviewed.

Keywords: Forensic accounting, forensic accounting in Anglo-American countries, forensic accounting in the U.S.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, Forensic Accounting: An Anglo-American Comparison – Forensic Accounting in the U.S.A. (November 11, 2014). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 6, Issue 3, Special International Issue, 2014, pp. 154-170., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2473196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Aaa
Forensic & Investigative (FIA) Section. Available from Posted: 2013
Crossref
Acams
Posted: 2013
Acfei
Posted: 2013
Crossref
Aicpa
AICPA Bylaw Section 911 -AICPA Mission Statement Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
585
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,603
RANK
106,613
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies