Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditor as Accounting Fraud Buster

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 1, January, 2014, pp. 7-29

Posted: 27 Aug 2014

Gopal Krishna Agarwal

Jaypee Institute of Information Technology (JIIT)

Y. Medury

Jaypee University of Information Technology

Date Written: August 22, 2014

Abstract

Fraud is a major cause of poverty in various parts of the world. Economic resources are being swindled by powerful politicians, bureaucrats and industrialists in one form or the other, leaving the economies of countries poorer. The corporate sector is not far behind. World over, accounting fraud in corporate balance sheets is continuously increasing in numbers and magnitude. This has also brought great burden on public resources and on the economy of the world and ultimately on public at large. The government and regulatory authorities are continuously revisiting this area to modify and introduce new legislation to check this menace. This paper discusses the effectiveness of internal auditor to contain, detect and prevent the accounting frauds and thus fight this plague in the corporate sector. The paper introduces the concept of appointment of internal auditor by outside stakeholders to strengthen his independence and consequently his effectiveness to detect and prevent fraud.

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Gopal Krishna and Medury, Y., Internal Auditor as Accounting Fraud Buster (August 22, 2014). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 1, January, 2014, pp. 7-29, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2484987
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,248
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies