Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Process Mining of Event Logs in Auditing: Opportunities and Challenges

32 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2014

Mieke Julie Jans

Hasselt University; Maastricht University

Michael Alles

Rutgers Business School

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 15, 2010

Abstract

In this paper we discuss the value that process mining of event logs can provide to internal and external auditors. Process mining aims to extract knowledge from event logs recorded by an information system. What makes an event log such a unique and potentially invaluable resource for auditing is not only that it provides the auditor with more data to analyze, but also because that additional data is recorded automatically and independently of the person whose behavior is the subject of the audit. In other words, an event log helps achieve the classic audit principle of “four eyes”, or in modern parlance, act as the equivalent of a surveillance camera, peering over the auditee’s shoulder. Until recently, the information contained in event logs was rarely used by auditors. In this paper is considered how process mining can add value to auditing, perhaps even to fundamentally transform it.

Keywords: Event logs, process mining, auditing, continuous auditing

Suggested Citation:

Jans, Mieke Julie and Alles, Michael Gamini and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., Process Mining of Event Logs in Auditing: Opportunities and Challenges (February 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2488737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2488737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R Agrawal , D Gunopulos , F Leymann
Mining Process Models from Workflow Logs
Sixth International Conference on Extending Deatabas Technology , p. 469 - 483 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Alles , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi , J Wu
The Implications of Unconstrained Data Avaliability and Aggregation Choice on Continuous Auditing Procedures // Unpublished working paper
M Alles , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi
Restoring Auditor Credibility: Tertiary Monitoring and Logging of Continuous Assurance Systems
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 202 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A K Alves De Medeiros
Process Mining based on Clustering: A Quist for Precision , volume 4928 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
14 Citations
Tiffany Chiu , Mieke Julie Jans
Process Mining of Event Logs: A Case Study Evaluating Internal Control Effectiveness
43 Pages · Posted: 12 Mar 2018 · Downloads: 826
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Martin Schultz
Design Science at the Intersection of Physical and Virtual Design
, volume 7939 , p. 120 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Alifah Syamsiyah , Boudewijn F. van Dongen , Wil M. P. van der Aalst
Data-Driven Process Discovery and Analysis
, volume 307 , p. 53 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Onno Valkering , Reginald Cushing , Adam Belloum
Brane: A Framework for Programmable Orchestration of Multi-Site Applications
, p. 277 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,446
RANK
26,300
14 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Process Mining of Event Logs in Auditing: Opportunities and Challenges

By Mieke Julie Jans, Michael Alles, ...

Aiding the Audit: Using the IT Audit as a Springboard for Continuous Controls Monitoring

By Gerard Brennan and Ryan Teeter

Remote Audit: A Research Framework

By Ryan Teeter, Michael Alles, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies