Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Genetics and Training on Deception Detection Performance

30 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2014

Chih‐Chen Lee

Northern Illinois University

Tingting (Rachel) Chung

Chatham University

Date Written: September 25, 2014

Abstract

This study seeks to examine the genetic basis of deception detection performance using the classic twin study design. A synthesis of current literature on twin studies and deception detection suggests a genetic basis for deception detection performance may exist. An experiment was conducted to examine the genetic basis for deception detection, and the moderating effect of training on improvement in deception detection performance. One hundred and ninety two twins participated in the experiment, with 65 pairs of monozygotic (MZ; identical) twins and 31 pairs of dizygotic (DZ; fraternal) twins. Performance on a series of deception detection tasks revealed that variability in deception detection performance was largely determined by shared and non-shared environmental influences. Moreover, declarative training significantly moderated change in deception detection performance. Implications of these findings are discussed with respect to both academic research and fraud prevention practices.

Keywords: Deception Detection, Lie Detection, Fraud Investigation, Investigation, Interview, Genetic Analysis, Twin Study

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Chih-Chen and Chung, Tingting (Rachel), The Impact of Genetics and Training on Deception Detection Performance (September 25, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2501404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2501404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
H Akaike
Factor Analysis and Aic
Psychometrika , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 317 - 332 Posted: 1987
Crossref
L Akehurst , R Bull , A Vrij , G Kohnken
The effects of training professional groups and lay persons to use Criteria-Based Content Analysis to detect deception Posted: 2004
Crossref
Applied Cognitive Psychology , volume 18 , p. 877 - 891
Crossref
J Alford , C Funk , J R Hibbing
Are political orientations genetically transmitted?
American Political Science Association , volume 99 , p. 153 - 167 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,521
RANK
667,795
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Human Cognition in Evolution & Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies