Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Fraud in Narrative Annual Reports

22 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2014

Yuh-Jen Chen

National Kaohsiung University of Science and Technology

Date Written: October 18, 2014

Abstract

Annual reports present the activities of a listed company in terms of its operational performance, financial conditions, and social responsibilities. These reports also provide valuable reference for numerous investors, creditors, or other accounting information end-users. However, many annual reports exaggerate enterprise activities to raise investor capital and support from financial institutions, thereby diminishing the usefulness of such reports. Effectively detecting fraud in the annual report of a company is thus of priority concern during an audit. Therefore, this work develops a novel fraud detection method for narrative annual reports to effectively detect fraud in the narrative annual report of a company in order to reduce investment losses and investor- and creditor-related risks, as well as enhance investment decisions. A developmental procedure of fraud detection is designed for narrative annual reports. Fraud detection-related techniques are then developed for narrative annual reports, followed by a demonstration and evaluation of the proposed fraud detection method. Fraud detection-related techniques for narrative annual reports consist mainly of establishing a fraudulent feature term library and clustering fraudulent and non-fraudulent narrative annual reports. Moreover, establishing fraudulent feature term library involves data preprocessing, term-pair combination, and filtering of fraudulent feature terms.

Keywords: Narrative annual report, fraud detection, support vector machine

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yuh-Jen, Detecting Fraud in Narrative Annual Reports (October 18, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2511629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2511629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Law and Regulations Retrieving System, The Judicial Yuan of The Republic of China
Taiwan Economic Journal
Crossref
Chinese Knowledge and Information Processing
Crossref
Matthew E Alden , Daniel M Bryan , Brenton J Lessley , Arindam Tripathy
Detection of Financial Statement Fraud Using Evolutionary Algorithms
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 94 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Kerstin Lopatta , Mario Albert Gloger , Reemda Jaeschke
Can Language Predict Bankruptcy? The Explanatory Power of Tone in 10‐K Filings
Accounting Perspectives , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 315 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Shuangyan Li , Guangrui Wang , Yongli Luo
Tone of language, financial disclosure, and earnings management: a textual analysis of form 20-F
Financial Innovation , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
S. M. R. K. Samarakoon , R. K. Mishra , Rudra P. Pradhan , Manju Jayakumar , Tapan P. Bagchi
Annual report readability, ESG disclosure, and risk perspectives of Indian firms: the mediating role of corporate governance and earnings management
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 678 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,865
RANK
212,316
3 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies