Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Strategic use of Language in Corrupt Firms’ Financial Disclosures

48 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2014 Last revised: 19 Dec 2014

Kerstin Lopatta

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences

Reemda Jaeschke

University of Oldenburg - Accounting and Corporate Governance

Cheong Yi

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 20, 2014

Abstract

This paper explores the role of language (tone and readability) in financial disclosures in detecting a firm’s likelihood of violating the FCPA. Matching FCPA violators with a control sample of non-violators, we examine whether the tone and readability of management’s 10-K filings can be linked to the likelihood of getting involved in an FCPA violation. We find that the management of FCPA violators uses more negative, uncertain, litigious, and complex language when disclosing financials compared to non-violators. Furthermore, we find that managers make strategic use of language after FCPA prosecution. Although they face additional litigation risk from FCPA prosecution, they lower their negative, uncertain, and litigious tone in 10-K filings. This effect is particularly strong for firms with low readability in SEC filings and low board independence.

Keywords: FCPA, corruption, text analysis, language, tone, readability, financial disclosures

JEL Classification: M41, D73, K42

Suggested Citation:

Lopatta, Kerstin and Jaeschke, Reemda and Yi, Cheong, The Strategic use of Language in Corrupt Firms’ Financial Disclosures (December 20, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2512323 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2512323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Ataullah , A Vivian , B Xu
Actions Speak Louder Than Words: Optimistic Disclosure Tone, Insider Trading and Capital Structure Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Bartov , F A Gul , J S Tsui
Discretionary-accruals models and audit qualifications
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 421 - 452 Posted: 2000
Crossref
T Beck , A Demirgüç-Kunt , V Maksimovic
Financial and legal constraints to growth: does firm size matter?
The Journal of Finance , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 177 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Morten Bennedsen , Sven E. Feldmann , David Dreyer Lassen
Strong Firms Lobby, Weak Firms Bribe: A Survey-Based Analysis of the Demand for Influence and Corruption
Pages: 35 Posted: 16 Nov 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,031
RANK
286,433
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies