Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Return and Liquidity Response to SEC Investigation Announcements

35 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2014

Brandon C.L. Morris

Wright State University

Jared F. Egginton

Boise State University - College of Business & Economics

Kathleen P. Fuller

University of Mississippi - School of Business Administration

Date Written: October 24, 2014

Abstract

This study measures the impact government enforcement actions have on investor confidence by examining changes in market quality in the firms investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission for fraud. The market quality measures we test include returns, price volatility, spreads, and Amihud’s (2002) illiquidity measure. We find that returns improve and price volatility reduces during an SEC investigation. However, spreads widen and illiquidity significantly increases after controlling for the known determinants of liquidity. Our work highlights some of the benefits and costs of having an active regulator of the US securities market.

Keywords: SEC Investigation, Liquidity

Suggested Citation:

Morris, Brandon C.L. and Egginton, Jared Frank and Petrie Fuller, Kathleen, Return and Liquidity Response to SEC Investigation Announcements (October 24, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2514407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2514407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Li
Posted: 2003
Whited ; Leahy , Heflin
Mohanram and Sunder Posted: 1996
Crossref
Spiegelman ; Bhattacharya , Palmrose
Posted: 1991
Amihud
Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,011
RANK
475,518
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies