Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting in a Constitutional Parliamentary Democracy: The Case of Ireland

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, 6(3): 62-97.

36 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2014

Niamh M. Brennan

University College Dublin

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The paper commences by summarizing the economic geography of Ireland followed by an overview of the Irish legal system. While similar in many respects to the British system from which it is derived, Ireland has a constitution based on the American model, to which parliament is subject. Lawyers and the operation of the courts in Ireland are described. While bearing some similarities to the British system, there are notable differences which are highlighted in the paper. The engagement of forensic accountants as expert witnesses in the Irish courts is considered. The paper concludes by observing that while forensic accounting is thriving in Ireland, it is at an early stage of development as far as professional guidelines and education provision is concerned.

Keywords: Ireland, Legal System, Expert Witnesses, Forensic Accountants, Forensic Accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Brennan, Niamh M., Forensic Accounting in a Constitutional Parliamentary Democracy: The Case of Ireland (2014). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, 6(3): 62-97., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2522960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
ABBREVIATIONS (WEBSITE ADDRESSES Posted: 2014-10
Crossref
ACCA Ireland Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Ireland (www.accaireland.com)() CAI Chartered Accountants Ireland (www.charteredaccountants.ie) CIMA Chartered Institute of Management Accountants
IAASA Irish Auditing and Accounting Supervisory Authority (www.iaasa.ie) ICAI Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland (www.charteredaccountants.ie) ICPAI Institute of Certified Public Accountants in Ireland
J Judge , P President
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,552
RANK
209,480
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies