Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Temporality and Evidence of Earnings Management in Fraud Companies

2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

39 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2014

Robert Biscontri

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

Companies manage earnings for a variety of reasons. One method managers use to manipulate earnings in order to meet expectations is discretionary accruals. Fraud and discretionary accruals has been studied in the past but confined in very specific contexts. The purpose of this study is to broaden the generalizability of these studies by addressing two significant issues. First, literature provides ample evidence that companies who managed earnings illegally resulting in fraud, did so using discretionary accruals. However, do all companies that commit fraud resulting in financial restatements, also display behavior consistent with earnings management? The second issue addressed is that of temporality. Is there a pattern to the use of discretionary accruals in the years leading to fraud? In other words is earnings management present for just the fraud period or for further periods leading up to the fraud? Using a sample of AAERs issued by the SEC is used as a proxy for fraud, the results show that earnings management is commonly used in firms who commit accounting fraud broadly not just those using earnings management as the primary vehicle. The results further show that the earnings management extends to more than one year prior to the fraud.

Suggested Citation:

Biscontri, Robert, Temporality and Evidence of Earnings Management in Fraud Companies (December 1, 2014). 2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,615
RANK
298,527
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies