Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of the Before-and-After Method Which Combines the Classic Elements of Fraud Examination and Forensic Skepticism in the Valuation of Commercial Damages

Business Journal for Entrepreneurs, Issue 4, 2014

11 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2014

Peter Lohrey

Montclair State University - Accounting, Law & Taxation

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: December 5, 2014

Abstract

Forensic accountants are routinely engaged to calculate damages when a personal economic loss is the result of a harmful act. In a legal setting, the individual harmed (the plaintiff) and the person who caused the harm (the defendant) are usually at odds regarding the amount of financial damages. Forensic accountants try to help resolve these issues by presenting them in a court of law before a Trier of Fact.

Keywords: valuation, forensic accounting, damages

Suggested Citation:

Lohrey, Peter and DiGabriele, James A., Application of the Before-and-After Method Which Combines the Classic Elements of Fraud Examination and Forensic Skepticism in the Valuation of Commercial Damages (December 5, 2014). Business Journal for Entrepreneurs, Issue 4, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
D R Cressy
Other People's Money: A Study in the Social Psychology of Embezzlement Posted: 1973
N J Montclair
D L Crumbley , L E Heitger , S Stevenson
Forensic & Investigative Accounting Posted: 2011
J A Digabriele
Core Components in Estimating Economic Damages
The CPA Journal , volume 79 , p. 54 - 64 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,701
RANK
331,544
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Civil Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies