Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Size and Extent of Financial Statement Fraud in Malawi

15 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2017

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 20, 2017

Abstract

It is undoubted fact that corporate entities exert significant influence in any given economy through substantial investment in infrastructural development, employment opportunities, corporate social responsibility, provide meaningful returns to shareholders and paying of taxes and very often this creates pressure on firms to constantly improve financial performance to satisfy ever increasing stakeholders’ demands. Reporting entities might be forced to adopt Financial Statement Fraud that is falsifying figures or disclosures in the financial statements to gloss up inefficiencies which at times are regarded as temporal measures but cause massive long term losses in the economy due to sudden collapse of perpetrators. Financial Statement Fraud topics attract extensive interest in developed economies but little is done in developing countries such as Malawi.

The magnitude and extent of Financial Statement Fraud is not known in Malawi and this study explored public limited companies and banks to evaluate any traits of improper accounting and disclosures. Results from this study indicate considerable flouting of accounting principles by Malawian companies which might potentially harm the fragile economy in the long run and it is therefore incumbent upon the listing house, central bank and various regulators to roll deliberate policies to curb this malpractice.

Keywords: Malawi, financial, statements, fraud, acquisition, impairment

JEL Classification: G21, G34, K21, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Size and Extent of Financial Statement Fraud in Malawi (April 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2540831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2540831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,249
RANK
257,340
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies