Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) in Protection of Investor's Interest: An Overview

AD VALOREM - Volume 1, Issue III, July-September – 2014, ISSN: 2348-5485

10 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2015

Radheshyam Prasad

University of Petroleum and Energy Studies Law School

Tabrez Ahmad

Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU)

Date Written: November 30, 2014

Abstract

The Companies Act 2013, guarantees several rights to investors and also regulates the affairs of a company with a view to ensure efficient functioning of a company so that investors may receive their due returns of the capital invested by them and their rights and interests are adequately protected. Investors are the real owners of a company but the power of management of the company is vested in the Board of Directors.

There are chances to abuse of power like committing fraud, by few directors of the company. As we know that there is close nexus between corporate governance and ethics but conflicts between these two are also bound to occur. Corporate fraud, an inevitable incident occurring, in recent, is an aggravated form of corruption in corporate world. It is difficult to prevent and to catch such white collar crimes. Such incidents reduce the interest and trust in corporate investments and in turn reduce the confidence on the government. The Companies Act empowers the Central Government with the right to investigate the affairs of the company, especially in cases of an alleged fraud or even in the oppression of the minority shareholders.

The Central Government is empowered to appoint inspectors to investigate either on its own if it is of the opinion that such investigation is required on the report of the Registrar or Inspector under section 208 or in public interest or on the request of the company on the basis of a special resolution or on the Direction of the court/tribunal or from such members of the company having requisite number of shares as specified in section 213 of the Companies Act, 2013.

The Central Government has also set up the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) in the ministry of corporate affairs, a specialized, multi-disciplinary organization to deal with serious cases of corporate fraud. This was also a major recommendation made by the Naresh Chandra Committee which was set up by the government on 21 August 2002 on corporate governance. Headquarters of this office is located in New Delhi, with field offices located in major cities throughout India. The SFIO is headed by a director not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India having knowledge and experience in dealing with the matters relating to corporate affairs and also consist of experts from various disciplines. This will, certainly protect the investor’s interest and will also bring back the confidence of investors in Indian capital market.

Keywords: SFIO, Investigation, Power, Corporate governance, Investor

Suggested Citation:

Prasad, Radheshyam and Ahmad, Tabrez, Role of Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) in Protection of Investor's Interest: An Overview (November 30, 2014). AD VALOREM - Volume 1, Issue III, July-September – 2014, ISSN: 2348-5485, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2561827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
639
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,965
RANK
95,173
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies