Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Sales and the Effectiveness of Clawback Adoptions in Mitigating Fraud Risk

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy (July-August 2015), 34(3):417-436

Posted: 9 Feb 2015 Last revised: 1 Jan 2016

Simon Fung

Deakin University

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Li Xu

Washington State University, Vancouver

Date Written: February 8, 2015

Abstract

In recent years, firms (and lawmakers) have sought to mitigate the dysfunctional effects of incentive-based executive compensation by adopting clawbacks. However, extant clawbacks (whether firm-initiated or as mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act) do not go far enough in that they seem to allow executives to retain trading profits linked to sales of their own companies’ shares at a time of inflated earnings (Fried and Shilon 2011). In this paper, we examine the moderating effect of insider sales on the relation between firm-initiated clawback-adoptions and fraud risk. Our results indicate that clawback-adopting firms experience a decrease in fraud risk following adoption relative to non-adopters during the same time period. However, this decrease in fraud risk for the clawback-adopting firms is materially weakened in the presence of insider trading. At this time (July 2014), the SEC is still working on rules for implementing clawbacks (one of nearly half of the rules yet to be completed under Dodd-Frank). Our findings suggest that clawback rules (as and when issued by the SEC) need to address insider sales for clawbacks to be fully effective in mitigating the risk of fraudulent financial reporting.

Keywords: Clawback adoptions, equity incentives, insider sales, fraud risk

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Raman, K. K. and Sun, Lili and Xu, Li, Insider Sales and the Effectiveness of Clawback Adoptions in Mitigating Fraud Risk (February 8, 2015). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy (July-August 2015), 34(3):417-436, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2562077
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,166
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies