Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Coverage, Corruption and Financial Secrecy: A Multi-Country Study

47 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2015

Omaima A. G. Hassan

Aberdeen Business School

Gianluigi Giorgioni

University of Liverpool Managment School

Date Written: February 18, 2015

Abstract

This study extends the literature on analyst coverage by examining the impact of both the experience of corruption at country-level and firm actions to prevent corruption on analyst coverage. It also extends the literature on analyst coverage by examining the effect of financial secrecy at country-level on the number of analysts following a firm, using a large multi-country sample for the year 2011. Furthermore, we examine the impact of these experimental variables on analyst coverage for advanced and emerging markets separately. The results show that high levels of corruption and financial secrecy at country-level significantly reduce analyst coverage consistent with the hypothesis that they are associated with higher levels of information acquisition costs. This result is consistent for both advanced and emerging economies, but because the financial secrecy and corruption variables at country-level are highly correlated in emerging markets, we should consider their impact on analyst coverage individually. The results also indicate that the adoption of anti-bribery and corruption policies at the firm-level may not in itself be sufficient to induce analyst coverage, indicating that it is the actual conduct rather than policies on paper that attracts analyst coverage.

Keywords: analyst coverage, analyst following, corruption, anti-bribery policies, financial

JEL Classification: G12; G14; M4; G230; G240; M490

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Omaima A. G. and Giorgioni, Gianluigi, Analyst Coverage, Corruption and Financial Secrecy: A Multi-Country Study (February 18, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2566848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2566848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
George Serafeim
Firm Competitiveness and Detection of Bribery
Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Pages: 35 Posted: 29 Jul 2013 Last revised: 24 Apr 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
V Sibilkov , M Straska , H G Waller
Do Firms Use M&A Business to Pay for Analyst Coverage?
Financial Review , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 725 - 51 Posted: 2013-11
Crossref
J Svensson
Who Must Pay Bribes and How Much? Evidence from a Cross Section of Firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 237 Posted: 2003-02
Crossref
Tax Justice Network
The Methodology of the 2011 Financial Secrecy Index Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,319
RANK
371,780
1 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies