Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GAAP Difference or Accounting Fraud? Evidence from Chinese Reverse Mergers Delisted from U.S. Markets

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting Vol. 7, 2015, 122-145

25 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2015

Yimiao Chen

KPMG

Gang Hu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Ling Lin

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - Department of Accounting & Finance

Min Xiao

Xiamen University - Department of Finance

Date Written: February 14, 2015

Abstract

In 2012, one in four federal securities class-action lawsuits filed in the U.S. involved Chinese Reverse Merge companies (CRMs). However, these lawsuits sometimes have encountered difficulties in court due to insufficient direct evidence of accounting fraud. We propose a new method for fraud detection: use Chinese companies dual-listed in the U.S. and China to establish a benchmark for the normal GAAP difference between the two countries. Using this methodology, we find that only a small fraction of the discrepancies between delisted CRMs’ financial statements filed in the U.S. and those filed in China can be attributed to GAAP difference. This suggests that the remaining discrepancies, which are large and unexplained, are indeed due to accounting fraud. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that delisted Chinese Reverse Merger companies enticed U.S. investors with favorable and fraudulent accounting and financial data.

Keywords: Accounting Fraud, GAAP Difference, Chinese Reverse Mergers, Dual-Listed

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yimiao and Hu, Gang and Lin, Ling and Xiao, Min, GAAP Difference or Accounting Fraud? Evidence from Chinese Reverse Mergers Delisted from U.S. Markets (February 14, 2015). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting Vol. 7, 2015, 122-145, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2567141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C A Adams , P Weetman , E A Jones , S J Gary
Reducing the burden of US GAAP reconciliations by foreign companies listed in the United States: the key question of materiality
European Accounting Review , volume 8 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1999
Crossref
James S. Ang , Zhiqian Jiang , Chaopeng Wu
Good Apples, Bad Apples: Sorting Among Chinese Companies Traded in the US
Pages: 42 Posted: 20 Mar 2012 Last revised: 14 Jun 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four east asian countries
Jounal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
452
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,510
RANK
146,388
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies