Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When do Employers Benefit from Offering Workers a Financial Reward for Reporting Internal Misconduct?

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2015 Last revised: 25 Jun 2016

Bryan Stikeleather

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Date Written: June 10, 2016

Abstract

Some employers offer workers financial rewards for reporting internal misconduct that harms the employer, and recent press articles suggest more employers should adopt this practice to increase the rate of internal whistleblowing. However, rewards are costly, and no consensus exists about whether employers ultimately benefit from offering them. I analyze the cost-benefit tradeoff facing employers as they decide whether to offer whistleblowing rewards and find that as the pre-existing rate of internal whistleblowing increases, the incremental expected cost of offering a reward increases relative to the incremental expected benefit. Consequently, the net expected economic effect of offering a reward is a function of the current rate of whistleblowing in the firm. I predict and, using an experiment, find that the level of fixed compensation paid to workers and the extent to which they believe reporting internal misconduct constitutes a moral obligation affect the pre-existing rate of internal whistleblowing, with the rate increasing as these two factors increase. Further, I also predict and find that an increase in either factor tempers the net economic benefit of offering a whistleblowing reward. My results suggest that certain types of employers are more likely than others to benefit economically from offering a financial reward for internal whistleblowing, which can help explain the variation observed in practice with respect to employers’ use of this approach. I discuss this and other implications of my findings.

Keywords: whistleblowing, reward, employee misconduct, gift wage, experimental economics

Suggested Citation:

Stikeleather, Bryan, When do Employers Benefit from Offering Workers a Financial Reward for Reporting Internal Misconduct? (June 10, 2016). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2574791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2574791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J S Adams , A Tashchian , T H Shore
Codes of ethics as signals for ethical behavior
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 199 - 211 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G A Akerlof
Labor Contracts as partial gift exchange
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 543 - 569 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Arnol Sr , D F Ponemon , L A
Internal Auditors' Perceptions of Whistle-Blowing and the Influence of Moral Reasoning: An Experiment
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1991
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,945
RANK
216,668
5 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies