Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Fraud Contagious? Co-Worker Influence on Misconduct by Financial Advisors

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2015 Last revised: 29 May 2024

Stephen G. Dimmock

National University of Singapore; Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

William Christopher Gerken

University of Kentucky - Finance

Nathaniel Graham

Texas A&M International University

Date Written: June 20, 2017

Abstract

Using a novel data set of U.S. financial advisors that includes individuals' employment histories and misconduct records, we show that co-workers influence an individual's propensity to commit financial misconduct. We identify co-workers' effect on misconduct using changes in co-workers caused by mergers of financial advisory firms. The tests include merger-firm fixed effects to exploit the variation in changes to co-workers across branches of the same firm. The probability of an advisor committing misconduct increases if his new co-workers, encountered in the merger, have a history of misconduct. This effect is stronger between demographically similar co-workers.

Keywords: Financial advisors, Financial misconduct, Fraud, Social networks, Peer effects, Career networks

JEL Classification: D18, G20, G24, G28, K22

Suggested Citation:

Dimmock, Stephen G. and Gerken, William Christopher and Graham, Nathaniel, Is Fraud Contagious? Co-Worker Influence on Misconduct by Financial Advisors (June 20, 2017). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2577311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2577311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Kenneth R Ahern , Tyler Ran Duchin , Shumway
Peer effects in risk aversion and trust
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , p. 3213 - 3240 Posted: 2014
Anurag Ambekar , Charles Ward , Jahangir Mohammed , Swapna Male , Steven Skiena
Name-ethnicity classification from open sources
Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD '09 , p. 49 - 58 Posted: 2009
Joshua D Angrist
The perils of peer effects
Labour Economics , volume 30 , p. 98 - 108 Posted: 2014
Coralio Ballester , Antoni Calvó-Armengol , Yves Zenou
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 8 , p. 34 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,743
RANK
43,661
97 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies