Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looking Through the Fraud Triangle: A Review and Call for New Directions

37 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2015

Clinton Free

University of Sydney Business School

Date Written: April 6, 2015

Abstract

Purpose: This article reviews popular frameworks used to examine fraud and earmarks three areas where there is considerable scope for academic research to guide and inform important debates within organisations and regulatory bodies.

Design/methodology/approach: The article reviews published fraud research in the fields of auditing and forensic accounting, focusing on the development of the dominant framework in accounting and fraud examination, the fraud triangle. From this review, specific avenues for future research are identified.

Findings: Three under-researched issues are identified: (1) rationalisation of fraudulent behaviours by offenders; (2) the nature of collusion in fraud; and (3) regulatory attempts to promote whistle-blowing. These topics highlight the perspective of those directly involved in fraud and draw together issues that have interested researchers in other disciplines for decades with matters that are at the heart of contemporary financial management across the globe.

Originality/value: In spite of the profound economic and reputational impact of fraud, research in accounting remains fragmented and emergent. This review identifies avenues offering scope to bridge the divide between academia and practice.

Keywords: Fraud triangle; Rationalisation; Collusion; Whistle-blowing; Regulation

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Free, Clinton Wallace, Looking Through the Fraud Triangle: A Review and Call for New Directions (April 6, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2590952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2590952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
T Ahrens , C Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Akers
Criminological Theories: Introduction, Evaluation and Application Posted: 1997
Crossref
J Albanese
Organizational Offenders: Understanding Corporate Crime, Apocalypse Posted: 1988
W Albrecht , K Howe , M Romney
Deterring Fraud: The Internal Auditor's Perspective. Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
922
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,043
RANK
58,519
9 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

White Collar Crime eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies