Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Finding Needles in a Haystack: Using Data Analytics to Improve Fraud Prediction

53 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2015 Last revised: 21 Apr 2016

Johan Perols

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy; University of San Diego - School of Business Administration

Robert M. Bowen

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Carsten Zimmermann

University of San Diego - School of Business Administration

Basamba Samba

Independent

Date Written: April 6, 2015

Abstract

Developing models to detect financial statement fraud involves challenges related to (i) the rarity of fraud observations, (ii) the relative abundance of explanatory variables identified in the prior literature, and (iii) the broad underlying definition of fraud. Following the emerging data analytics literature, we introduce and systematically evaluate three methods to address these challenges. Results from evaluating actual cases of financial statement fraud suggest that two of these methods improve fraud prediction performance by approximately ten percent relative to the best current techniques. Improved fraud prediction can result in meaningful benefits, such as improving the ability of the SEC to detect fraudulent filings and improving audit firms’ client portfolio decisions.

Keywords: Financial statement fraud, Data analytics, Fraud rarity, Risk assessment, Data rarity, Data imbalance, Undersampling

JEL Classification: M4, C1

Suggested Citation:

Perols, Johan and Bowen, Robert M. and Zimmermann, Carsten and Samba, Basamba, Finding Needles in a Haystack: Using Data Analytics to Improve Fraud Prediction (April 6, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2590588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2590588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Abbasi , C Albrecht , A Vance , J Hansen
MetaFraud: A Meta-Learning Framework for Detecting Financial Fraud
MIS Quarterly , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1293 - 1327 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Agarwal , V Dhar
Editorial-Big Data, Data Science, and Analytics: The Opportunity and Challenge for IS Research
Information Systems Research , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 443 - 448 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B Apostolou , J Hassell , S Webber
Forensic Expert Classification of Management Fraud Risk Factors
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 192 Posted: 2000
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: the role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
915
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,448
RANK
59,197
16 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies