Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expertise Management by Public Accounting Firms

Australian Accounting Review, Volume 9, Issue 19, pp.27-34, November 1999

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-164

44 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2001 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013

Michael Gibbins

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: February 6, 2001

Abstract

This paper constructs a model of professional expertise as an attribute of an accounting firm rather than just an attribute of individual experts. This model leads to the identification of three strategies applicable to accounting firms. A Knowledge firm develops and sells proprietary knowledge to a selective clientele, whereas a Full Service firm develops and sells general professional knowledge to a broad clientele. A Relationship firm is in-between the other two firm types. Associations are hypothesized between these strategies and a variety of firm activities such as client selection, diffusion (or concentration) of expertise within the firm, sharing of expertise within the firm, and formalization of quality control processes. A questionnaire was completed by 219 audit and tax partners and consulting, insolvency and forensic accounting principals in 15 public accounting firms, including the Big Five. Results are consistent with the existence of three distinct types of firms. Results also indicate that partners are aware of local pressures that they personally face (e.g,. need to sell more services to clients) and less aware of the effect of broad structural features of the firm (e.g., size, decision aids). The key structural features that are salient to partners involve need for selectivity in choosing clients, and the need for the firm to develop specialized proprietary technical knowledge.

Keywords: Firm level expertise; Expertise management; Proprietary knowledge; Client selection; Audit firm structure; Knowledge management

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Gibbins, Michael and Jamal, Karim, Expertise Management by Public Accounting Firms (February 6, 2001). Australian Accounting Review, Volume 9, Issue 19, pp.27-34, November 1999, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-164, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=259141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.259141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R H Ashton , A H Ashton
Perspectives on Judgment and Decision-Making Research in Accounting and Auditing
of Judgment and Decision-Making Research in Accounting and Auditing , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R H Ashton , J J Willingham
Using and Evaluating Decision Aids
Auditing Symposium IX: Proceedings of the 1988 Touche Ross/University of Kansas Symposium on Auditing Problems Posted: 1998
B Balachandran , R Ramakrishnan
A theory of large audit partnerships: Audit firm size and fees
Journal of Accounting Research , volume Spring , p. 111 - 126 Posted: 1987
Crossref
G Biddle , R Bowen , J Wallace
Does EVA beat earnings? Evidence on associations with stock returns and firm values
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 301 - 336 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
885
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,756
RANK
61,942
5 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Knowing What Others Know: Common Knowledge, Accounting, and Capital Markets

By Shyam Sunder

Management Controls, Expectations, Common Knowledge and Culture

By Shyam Sunder

Using Experimental Data to Model Bargaining Behavior in Ultimatum Games

By Shyam Sunder and Haijin Lin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies