Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Forensic Investigation Professionals in the Prevention of Fraud and Corruption in Developing Countries.

11 Pages Posted: 15 May 2015

Mau Kingsly

Harvard University - Harvard Kennedy School (HKS)

Date Written: May 13, 2015

Abstract

Fraud and corruption in developing countries is regarded as a way of life, norm in public service or a culture that cannot be wish away. Auditors concentrate of error detection and regards fraud and corruption as a secondary assignment in a given engagement. The primary role of Forensic Investigation Professionals (FIPs) or forensic accountants is to examine incidence of fraud in financial records. Auditors are fact witness, whereas Forensic investigation professionals or forensic accountants are expert witness not fact witness, they can testify in courts as expert witnesses for either the prosecution or the defense. This study evaluates the role of forensic investigation professionals in curbing the menace of fraud and corruption practice in developing countries using exploratory research design. Finding in the study point to the fact that forensic investigation professional plays a complimentary role to the government anti-fraud and anti-corruption agencies in strategies and policies to curb menace of corruption in the system. Also, finding shows that Forensic Investigation Professionals (FIPs) have significant role in curbing the menace of fraud and corruption in developing countries.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Forensic Investigation, fraud, corruption, anti-corruption

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Mau, The Role of Forensic Investigation Professionals in the Prevention of Fraud and Corruption in Developing Countries. (May 13, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2605811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2605811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
L Arokiasamy , S Lee
Forensic accounting: Public acceptance towards occurrence of fraud detection
International Journal of Business and Management , p. 145 - 160 Posted: 2009
L Bressler
The Role of Forensic accountants in fraud investigations: importance of attorney and judge's perceptions
Journal of Finance and Accountancy , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2011
A Chariri
The Relevance of Forensic Accounting in Detecting Financial Frauds
Shariah & Forensic Accounting Studies Posted: 2009
Abubakar Sadiq Kasum
The Relevance of Forensic Accounting to Financial Crimes in Private and Public Sectors of Third World Economies: A Study from Nigeria
Proceedings of The 1st International Conference on Governance Fraud Ethics and Social Responsibility, June 11-13, 2009 Pages: 24 Posted: 16 Apr 2009 Last revised: 23 Sep 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,897
RANK
45,393
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies