Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Materiality' Requirement in Credit Derivatives Fraud Litigations: The Hidden Role of the 'Short-Party'

57 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2015

Diana Milanesi

University of California, Berkeley, School of Law

Date Written: December 19, 2011

Abstract

Since early 2006 until late 2007 when the U.S. housing market began show signs of distress, certain hedge funds and investment banks started to develop complex short-selling strategies based on sophisticated credit derivatives instruments, which enabled them to express a bearish view of systematic spread widening in the U.S. housing market and place unlimited side bets on it. When the U.S. housing market bubble burst, investment banks and hedge funds realized enormous positive returns whilst other investors collectively failed and saw the value of their investments literally vanished away.

During the last twelve months, complex synthetic short selling transactions have come under severe scrutiny by the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”). According to the SEC, in the context of such transactions, investment banks made material misrepresentations and omissions to investors, guarantors and portfolio agents by hiding the role and involvement in the asset pool selection process of the “short” party, with economic interest adverse those of long investors. The assessment of the liability of investment banks and certain of their top executive managers responsible for structuring and marketing the synthetic derivative products critically relies on the resolution of the issue of materiality: was the involvement of the short-party in the selection process and its adverse economic interest material? How would a reasonable investor have viewed this information if properly and timely revealed in the context of all facts and circumstances of the case? Would a reasonable investor have acted differently with the benefit of this information under the circumstances of the case?

This essay will attempt to answer the aforesaid questions, as follows. Part I will analyze different types of credit derivative products and discuss latest innovations in credit derivatives market. Part II will examine the SEC antifraud enforcement theories and the concept of “materiality” in the context of antifraud provisions. Part III will, then, discuss the materiality of the hidden role of the short-party in the context of three credit derivatives fraud litigations recently brought by the SEC against, respectively, Goldman, Sachs & Co, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Lastly, Part IV will address in details potential legal defenses and factual rebuttal on the issue of materiality.

Keywords: CDO, CDS, STCDO, Short-Party, Antifraud Securities Litigations, Materiality

Suggested Citation:

Milanesi, Diana, 'Materiality' Requirement in Credit Derivatives Fraud Litigations: The Hidden Role of the 'Short-Party' (December 19, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2621331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2621331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
135 References
derived" from the value of an underlying asset. An over-the-counter (OTC) derivative is a derivative instrument that is not traded on an organized exchange
Options, Futures, and other Derivatives
Suresh See , Sundaresan
Fixed Income Markets and Their Derivatives , p. 402 - 403 Posted: 2009
The size of the equity, subordinate and the mezzanine tranches dictates the amount of subordination available to the senior note holders
overcollateralization, equity retention, excess spread and cash reserve), (ii) structural, (i.e., through the tranche exposure to risk and the payment priority associated to the different classes of liabilities), and (iii) third-party provided (e.g., monoline companies' insurance coverage, line of credit, liquidity support and/or interest rate hedging through a swap transaction). Suresh Sundaresan, Fixed Income Markets and Their Derivatives
There are three types of credit enhancement: (i) originator-provided
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,314
RANK
511,510
135 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies