Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Fraud: A Review of Literature and Policy Implications.

International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies, 3(1), 63-68

19 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2015 Last revised: 3 Mar 2017

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This review present some evidence on fraud, forensic accounting, the skills and education of the forensic investigator. Also, some explanation for the diverging views among academics and regulators in relation to detecting fraud are provided. To regulators, I address the question on why academic research in forensic accounting may have little significance to inform policy. Further, I present some rich set of questions and identify a number of important directions for future research in forensic accounting. This paper is intended to stimulate debates and future research of the issues identified.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Fraud, Forensic Education, Fraud Triangle, Fraud Investigation, Fraud Detection, Corporate Fraud, Forensic Science, Forensic Accounting, Ethics, Regulation,

JEL Classification: I23, M41, M42, M48, M49.

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Forensic Accounting and Fraud: A Review of Literature and Policy Implications. (2015). International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies, 3(1), 63-68, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2628554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2628554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
W S Albrecht , O Albrecht
Fraud Examination and Prevention Posted: 2003-03-21
S Albrecht , M Romney
Red-flagging management: a validation
Advances in Accounting , volume 3 , p. 323 - 356 Posted: 1986
B Apostolou , J M Hassell , S A Webber , G E Sumners
The Relative Importance of Sas No. 82 Management Fraud Risk Factors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 13 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,156
RANK
2,801
6 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Public Law - Crime, Criminal Law, & Punishment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies