Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Critical Role of Internal Audit in Addressing Bank Fraud: A Conceptual Framework and Critical Review of the Literature with Future Extensions

21 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2015

Georgios Vousinas

National Technical University of Athens

Date Written: July 18, 2015

Abstract

The recent global financial recession highlighted the critical role that the banking system plays in the modern economy. Banks are complex financial institutions that operate in a constantly changing business environment and deal with high levels of risk, while facing fraudulent actions in regular basis. In order to address these problems, banks engage in various internal audit techniques such as the implementation of controls and prevention tools, the usage of anti-fraud methods and data mining. The aim of this paper is to redefine the contribution of internal audit in the banking system by highlighting its crucial role in addressing bank fraud. This is achieved by initially proposing a new conceptual framework and then by providing a thorough critical review of both theoretical and empirical literature which helps in determining the value of internal auditing. The results confirm the fact that internal audit can play a major role in risk assurance and bank fraud management thus, ensuring their normal and uninterrupted operation. The paper also provides some useful insights for future application of internal audit methods in the banking sector thus, laying the ground for a fruitful dialogue among the various stakeholders.

Keywords: Internal audit, banking system, fraud, risk, loss

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Vousinas, Georgios, The Critical Role of Internal Audit in Addressing Bank Fraud: A Conceptual Framework and Critical Review of the Literature with Future Extensions (July 18, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2632911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2632911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Idowu Abiola
An Assessment of Fraud and its Management in Nigeria Commercial Banks
European Journal of Social Sciences , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 628 - 640 Posted: 2009
I Ahmed , M Madawaki , F Usman
Managing Bank Fraud and Forgeries Through Effective Control Strategies. A Case Study of Central Bank of Nigeria, Gombe Branch
International Journal of Business and Management Invention , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 7 - 17 Posted: 2014
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2014
Bank for International Settlements (B.I.S), The Internal Audit function in banks Posted: 2011-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,020
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,834
RANK
50,951
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies