Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Behaviour of Earnings, Accruals and Impairment Loss of Failed New Zealand Finance Companies

Kabir, H. and Laswad, F. (2014). The Behaviour of Earnings, Accruals and Impairment Losses of Failed New Zealand Finance Companies, Australian Accounting Review, 24 (3): 262-275.

Posted: 25 Jul 2015 Last revised: 29 Sep 2017

Humayun Kabir

Auckland University of Technology

Fawzi Laswad

Massey University

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This study examines the behaviour of earnings, accruals and impairment losses of failed ﬁnance companies in New Zealand. It draws on conservatism in the development of research hypotheses about accounting variables that are likely to contain clues to future failures of ﬁnance companies. The hypotheses are tested by examining the trend of earnings after tax (EAT), accruals and impairment losses of 32 ﬁnance companies that failed from 2006 to 2011. Data were collected from the annual reports of the sampled companies and the ﬁrst reports of receivers of failed companies. The study ﬁnds that EAT and accruals declined, and impairment losses increased signiﬁcantly in the last two ﬁnancial statements prior to failure, when compared with other years. This suggests that changes in EAT, accruals and impairment losses may provide indications of impending failure.

Keywords: Business failure, Conservatism, Finance companies, New Zealand

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kabir, Humayun and Laswad, Fawzi, The Behaviour of Earnings, Accruals and Impairment Loss of Failed New Zealand Finance Companies (2014). Kabir, H. and Laswad, F. (2014). The Behaviour of Earnings, Accruals and Impairment Losses of Failed New Zealand Finance Companies, Australian Accounting Review, 24 (3): 262-275. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2635362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2635362
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies