Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Fraud Risk and Stock Market Performance

61 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2015 Last revised: 7 May 2019

Lena Jaroszek

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Finance

Alexandra Niessen-Ruenzi

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); University of Mannheim - Finance Area

Stefan Ruenzi

University of Mannheim - Department of International Finance

Date Written: December 2018

Abstract

We investigate the impact of fraud risk - measured by the probability for earnings overstatements - on a firm's future stock market performance. Based on an out-of-sample estimation of individual firms' fraud risk, we find that stocks with higher fraud risk earn significantly lower stock market returns. A long-short trading strategy delivers a statistically significant alpha of more than 10% per year. This result is robust to controlling for differences in firms' liquidity, downside risk, or investor preferences. Furthermore, abnormal returns are higher after periods of high sentiment, suggesting that the return patterns documented here constitute an anomaly.

Keywords: Corporate Fraud, Earnings Overstatements, Stock Returns

JEL Classification: G14, G12, G320, G340

Suggested Citation:

Jaroszek, Lena and Niessen-Ruenzi, Alexandra and Ruenzi, Stefan, Corporate Fraud Risk and Stock Market Performance (December 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2636633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2636633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
S A Richardson , R G Sloan , M T Soliman , I Tuna
Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 437 - 485 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Sadka
Momentum and Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift Anomalies: The Role of Liquidity Risk
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 309 - 349 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Shleifer , R W Vishny
The Limits of Arbitrage
The Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 55 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R Sloan
Do Stock Prices Fully Reflect Information in Accruals and Cash Flows about Future Earnings?
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 3 , p. 289 - 315 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,565
RANK
96,304
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies