Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Group of Companies and Inter-Company Fraud: A Case from Turkey

Posted: 14 Aug 2015

Cenap Ilter

California State University

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

With regards to greed, especially the greed of the CEO or the owner of the group is another important factor in financial fraud. He/she wants to expand the business without having the expertise in the new industry. I.e. for an industrialist, banking is a new area which requires a completely different expertise. The owners do not know the business. They think that the money deposited in the bank is their own money and can be used in their diversified business activities. This paper explains a real accounting fraud case in a group company in Turkey. It explains how the Group's bank financed the Group companies and in return how a Group's company financed the others instead paying its debt back to the Banks. The owners of the Group hired the expertise but always exerted their own will on the professionals. Despite the Banking Regulatory Authority`s warnings, they have manipulated the accounts, changed the records, illegally converted local deposits to off-shore accounts through tailor made programs thus caused millions of dollars tax evasion. The consequences has not been positive, leading thousands of victims of depositors.

Keywords: Accounting fraud, inter-company transfers, arms' length transactions, fraudulent money transfers between the group companies

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ilter, Cenap, Group of Companies and Inter-Company Fraud: A Case from Turkey (2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2643096
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,772
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies