Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of Fraud Risk Assessment and Knowledge Requirement on Fraud Related Problem Representation in Nigeria

Accounting Research Journal, Vol. 28, Iss. 1, 2015, pp. 78-97

27 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2015 Last revised: 14 Nov 2015

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 2, 2015

Abstract

Purpose: The paper investigates Fraud Risk Assessment Task Performance (TPFRA) and Knowledge Requirement (KR) of the forensic accountant and auditor on Fraud Related Problem Representation (FRPR) in the Nigerian public sector.

Design/Methodology/Approach: The study used cross-sectional design and 400 Survey questionnaires. The respondents are real professional people (auditors and forensic accountants in the Nigerian public sector) as true representatives to enhance the generalisation of the outcomes. A total of 36 indicator items was measured on 5-point Likert Scale from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree). PLS-SEM 2.0 3M and IBM SPSS Statistics 20.0 were employed as the primary statistical analysis tool for the study.

Findings: The results of the present study confirm the positive relationship between KR on TPFRA, positive relationship of KR on FRPR, and positive relationship of FRPR and TPFRA. Specifically, the results revealed that FRPR positively mediates the relationship between TPFRA and KR (forensic accountant and auditor) in the areas of fraud prevention, detection and response.

Research limitations/Implications: The first limitation deals with fraud and corrupt practices in a developing country, Nigeria. Examining the mediating influence of FRPR on KR and TPFRA in the public sector could be considered as sensitive and raise the issue of bias. The second limitation is the adoption of cross-sectional design in which data are collected at one point in time. Researchers are encouraged to use a longitudinal design to explore interactions between KR, FRPR and TPFRA.

Practical Implication: This empirical study has revealed the value of KR (forensic accountant and auditor) as a significant capability requirement in the workplace. In addition, it shows the importance of FRPR as an important mental state in decision-making or judgement and also the significance of FRPR as an important mediating variable on KR and TPFRA.

Originality/Value: No nation is immune to fraud and loss due to fraud in the public sector is enormous and costly, the result of this research will improve the KR of auditors and forensic accountants in the areas of fraud detection, prevention and response. It will also contribute to the regulatory, legal and institutional frameworks in accounting and auditing systems in Nigeria and portend an increase in demand for forensic accountants.

Keywords: fraud related problem representation, knowledge, task performance fraud risk assessment, forensic accounting, auditing, Nigeria

JEL Classification: M410, M420

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah, An Empirical Investigation of Fraud Risk Assessment and Knowledge Requirement on Fraud Related Problem Representation in Nigeria (September 2, 2015). Accounting Research Journal, Vol. 28, Iss. 1, 2015, pp. 78-97, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Acfe
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse. Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2010
F A Adebisi
Audit, Investigation and Forensics: Similarities and Differences. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria: Forensic, Audit & Investigation Faculty Posted: 2011-02
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 82: Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 1997
Aicpa
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit (AICPA, Professional Standards , volume 1 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,355
RANK
368,155
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies