Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting Knowledge and Mindset on Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment

International Journal of Business and Management. Vol. 9, No. 9; 2014

16 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2015

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 16, 2014

Abstract

The paper investigates the relationship between knowledge (KR) and mindset (MR) on task performance fraud risk assessment (TPFRA) of forensic accountant and auditor in the public sector environment. It also examines the claim that forensic accountants possess higher level of KR, MR and TPFRA than auditors. The study design is cross-sectional. Survey questionnaire is used. The 300 respondents are real professional people (i.e. auditors and accountants in the Nigerian public sector) as true representatives to enhance the generalisation of the outcomes. PLS-SEM and IBM SPSS Statistics 20.0 were used as the primary statistical analysis tools for the study. The results of the present study confirm the positive relationship of KR and MR on TPFRA. Specifically, the results revealed that forensic accountants have higher levels of KR, MR and TPFRA than auditors in the areas of fraud prevention/deterrent, detection and response. Because of the adoption of cross-sectional design in which data are collected at one point of time, there is no time to wait for different follow-up stages or interventions before data analysis. Researchers are encouraged to use longitudinal design to explore interactions between KR, MR and TPFRA. This empirical study has revealed the value of KR and MR (forensic accountant and auditor) as a significant capability requirement in the workplace. Since no nation is immune to fraud and as loss due to fraud is costly, the result of this research will improve the corporate governance and accountability practices among public sector accountants and auditors.

Keywords: forensic accounting, auditing, knowledge, mindset, task performance fraud risk assessment, public sector

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah, Forensic Accounting Knowledge and Mindset on Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment (January 16, 2014). International Journal of Business and Management. Vol. 9, No. 9; 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654800
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
R A Adams
Public Sector Accounting and Finance Made Simple Posted: 2004
F A Adebisi
Audit, Investigation and Forensics: Similarities and Differences. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria: Forensic, Audit & Investigation Faculty Posted: 2011-02
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 82: Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 1997
Aicpa
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit (AICPA, Professional Standards , volume 1 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,239
RANK
108,012
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies