Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting Knowledge and Skills on Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment: Nigerian Public Sector Experience

Proceedings of the Global Symposium on Social Sciences (IBSSS, 2013), Okinawa, Japan

11 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2015

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 2, 2013

Abstract

The Public company accounting oversight board (PCAOB) standing advisory group (2008) highlights several challenges that relate to fraud and therefore tasks accounting researchers to determine whether forensic accountants are more capable than auditors in fraud detection, prevention and response. This paper discusses forensic accountant knowledge and skills and auditor knowledge and skills on task performance fraud risk assessment in the Nigerian public sector. It also draws the attention of the users of public sector accountants and auditors such as the regulatory and enforcement agencies, courts and ministries, departments and agencies. The objective of the study is to investigate the fraud risk assessment task performance in the office of the Auditor general for the Federation and Accountant general of the Federation through the effective use of knowledge and skills (forensic accountant versus auditor), which has the potential to usher in the best global practices in fighting fraud in the Nigerian public sector.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Auditing, Fraud Risk Assessment, Knowledge, Skills, Public Sector

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah, Forensic Accounting Knowledge and Skills on Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment: Nigerian Public Sector Experience (April 2, 2013). Proceedings of the Global Symposium on Social Sciences (IBSSS, 2013), Okinawa, Japan, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Acfe
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse. Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2008
Acfe
Managing the Business Risk of Fraud: A Practical Guide, (sponsored by The Institute of Internal Auditors, The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners)
Retrieved on 19 October , p. 2 - 17 Posted: 2009
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse
ACFE Posted: 2004
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse
ACFE Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,799
RANK
164,283
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies