Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Fraud: Capability and Competence Requirements in Malaysia

Journal of Modern Accounting & Auditing, Vol. 10, No 8, 2014, pp. 825-834

10 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2015

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 10, 2014

Abstract

The 2011 Global Economic Crime Survey instituted by PricewaterhouseCoopers confirms the economic crime in Malaysia to be on the increase and, therefore, requires immediate attention to stem the tides.

In anticipation of the challenges occasioned due to a shift from the modified cash basis to the accrual basis of accounting, the Malaysian State’s determination to move from a developing nation to a developed nation and to be ranked among the first 10 in 2020, this paper presents the need for forensic accountant and auditor capability (i.e., mindset and skills) on forensic accountant and auditor competence (i.e., task performance fraud risk assessment (TPFRA)) in the Malaysian public sector.

It also draws the attention of the users of public sector accountants and auditors to the understanding of fraud mechanisms and how to deal with fraudsters.

The population of this study comprised the accountants and auditors in the office of the Accountant General and Auditor General of Malaysia.

The objective of this paper is to investigate the competence requirements of accountants and auditors in the effective and efficient utilization of capability requirements, which have the potentials to usher in the best global practices in fighting fraud in the Malaysian public sector.

Keywords: forensic accounting, auditing, fraud, fraud risk assessment, mindset, skills, Malaysia

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah, Forensic Accounting and Fraud: Capability and Competence Requirements in Malaysia (March 10, 2014). Journal of Modern Accounting & Auditing, Vol. 10, No 8, 2014, pp. 825-834, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R A Adams
Public sector accounting and finance made simple Posted: 2004
Statement of Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 82: Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit Posted: 1997
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 99: Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit. AICPA, Professional Standards , volume 1 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Forensic and valuation services: Overview of certified in financial forensics (CFF) credential Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
819
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,879
RANK
68,840
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Asian Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies