Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accountant and Auditor Knowledge and Skills Requirements for Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment in the Nigerian Public Sector

International Conference on Accounting Studies (ICAS, 2015)

14 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2015

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 2, 2015

Abstract

Despite the Nigerian government efforts at reducing the incidence of fraud and corruption through measures, such as establishing and strengthening organs of accountability and promoting the global best corporate practices, fraud and financial crimes in the public sector continue to be on the increase.

This paper examines the capability and competence requirements – Knowledge (KR), Skills (SR) and Task performance fraud risk assessment (TPFRA) of a forensic accountant and auditor in the Nigerian public sector. Also, this study determines whether the forensic accountant has higher levels of SR, KR and TPFRA requirements than the auditor in an emergent area of fraud prevention, detection and response.

The study employed cross-sectional design and a survey method. Of the 550 questionnaires distributed, 422 questionnaires were returned and out of which 328 questionnaires retained for analysis. The variables are considered a between-subject factor and measured at two levels with a total of 29 observable items (including demography information).

The study used PLS-SEM (SmartPLS 2.0 M3) and IBM SPSS ver. 20.0 as the primary statistical analysis tools. The results of the study confirm the significant positive relationship of SR on TPFRA and KR on TPFRA.

Also, the findings revealed that the forensic accountant has significant higher levels of KR, SR and TPFRA than auditor in respect of fraud prevention, detection and response.

The implication of this study might result in the overall reduction of fraud and fraudulent acts, promote institutional, regulatory and legal framework, and create awareness amongst the accounting and auditing institutions in the Nigerian public sector.

Keywords: forensic accounting, auditing, skills, knowledge, fraud risk assessment, public sector, Nigeria

JEL Classification: M410

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah, Forensic Accountant and Auditor Knowledge and Skills Requirements for Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment in the Nigerian Public Sector (February 2, 2015). International Conference on Accounting Studies (ICAS, 2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Acfe
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse. The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2008
Acfe
Managing the Business Risk of Fraud: A Practical Guide", (Sponsored by the Institute of Internal Auditors, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners) Posted: 2009
Acfe
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse. The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2010
Aicpa
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Statement of Auditing Standard (SAS) No. 82: Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit Posted: 1997
Load more
1 Citations
Pemisa Kaewsan , Wasutida Nurittamont , Bordin Phayaphrom
The Impact of Accountant Competency On Accountants' Success in Bangkok
Journal of Management in Business, Healthcare, and Education, 1(1), 1-11, December 2021 · 11 Pages · Posted: 17 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 181
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,984
RANK
184,062
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies