Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment on Forensic Accountant Knowledge and Mindset in Nigerian Public Sector

International Conference on Business and Social Science (ICBASS) 2013, Seoul, South Korea

8 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2015

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Hartini Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: February 8, 2013

Abstract

This paper discusses task performance fraud risk assessment and forensic accountant knowledge and mindset in the Nigerian public sector. The aim of the study is to investigate the fraud risk assessment in the Nigerian public sector through the efficient exploit of forensic accountant knowledge and mindset. The effect will enhance the corporate governance and accountability practices among public sector accountants and auditors in Nigeria.

Keywords: Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment, Forensic Accountant Mindset, Forensic Accountant Knowledge, Nigeria

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah and Ahmad, Hartini, Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment on Forensic Accountant Knowledge and Mindset in Nigerian Public Sector (February 8, 2013). International Conference on Business and Social Science (ICBASS) 2013, Seoul, South Korea, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2655364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
J Doering , Sarbanes-Oxley
Posted: 2002
Crossref
The Auditor's responsibility to Consider fraud in an Audit of financial statements. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN)
Nigerian Standards on Auditing (NSA) , issue 5
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit (AICPA, Professional Standards , volume 1 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Wuerges
Auditors' Responsibility for Fraud Detection: New Wine in Old Bottles? Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,189
RANK
718,946
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies