Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Bias and the Persistence of the Expectation Gap: An Analysis of Press Articles on Corporate Fraud

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2015-1105

47 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2015 Last revised: 14 Sep 2015

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Yuan Ding

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Cédric Lesage

JMSB

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: September 3, 2015

Abstract

Prior research has documented the continued existence of an expectation gap, defined as the divergence between the public’s and the profession’s conceptions of auditor’s duties, despite the auditing profession’s attempt to adopt standards and practices to close this gap. In this paper, we consider one potential explanation for the persistence of the expectation gap: the role of media bias in shaping public opinion and views. We analyze press articles covering 40 U.S. corporate fraud cases discovered between 1992 and 2011. We compare the auditor’s duties, described by the auditing standards, with the description of the fraud cases as found in the press articles. We draw upon prior research to identify three sources of the expectation gap: deficient performance, deficient standards, and unreasonable expectations. The results of our analysis provide evidence that: (1) The performance gap can be reduced by strengthening auditor’s willingness and ability to apply existing auditing standards concerning fraud detection; (2) The standards gap can be narrowed by improving existing auditing standards; (3) Unreasonable expectations, however, involve elements beyond the profession’s sphere of control. As a result, the expectation gap is unlikely to disappear given the media’s tendency to bias, with an overemphasis of unreasonable expectations in their coverage of frauds and press articles tending to reinforce the view that the auditor should take more responsibility for detecting fraud, irrespective of whether this is feasible at a reasonable cost. In addition to the primary role of the press in perpetuating the expectation gap, a second reason for continuation of the expectation gap is that the rational auditor will have difficulty in assessing subjective components of fraudulent behavior.

Keywords: Expectation gap, Media bias, Corporate fraud, Management behavior, Press, Fraud-related professional standards

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Ding, Yuan and Lesage, Cédric and Stolowy, Hervé, Media Bias and the Persistence of the Expectation Gap: An Analysis of Press Articles on Corporate Fraud (September 3, 2015). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2015-1105, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2655770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
M Abramowitz
A pillar's fall shakes Ohio town; Phar-Mor founder's troubles generate bafflement, worry
The Washington Post Posted: 1992-08-07
E Ackerman , C Kang
Silicon valley software company sinks under its own ambition
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News Posted: 2001-02-15
F Ahrens
History of conflict for ex-Rite Aid chief; indictment paints picture of Grass as an arrogant bully
The Washington Post Posted: 2002-06-22
Statement on auditing standards (SAS) No. 99: Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
AICPA Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,898
RANK
150,243
2 Citations
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies