Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud and Forensic Accounting: Knowledge and Risk Assessment Task Performance in Malaysian Public Sector – Conceptual Study

4th Annual International Conference on Accounting and Finance, 2014, DOI: 10.5176/2251-1997_AF14.55

7 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2015

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 2, 2014

Abstract

The PwC’s 2011 Global economic crime survey confirms the fact that loss due to economic crime in Malaysia is on the increase and requires immediate intervention. The Malaysian government vision 2020 to be a developed nation with the drive: “People first, performance now” will require high level acquisition and adoption of technology as a business facilitator, new legislation, and increase in the activities of government offer new opportunities for fraud perpetrators and forensic accountants. In anticipation of these challenges, this paper discusses the need for a forensic accountant knowledge on task performance fraud risk assessment in the Malaysian public sector. It also creates awareness to stakeholders fighting fraud in the public sector to the understanding of fraud mechanism and how to deal with fraudsters. The objective of the study is to examine the relationship between knowledge and fraud risk assessment task performance in the office of the Accountant general and Auditor general of Malaysia which has the potential to usher in the best global practices in fighting fraud in the Malaysian public sector.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting; Fraud; Fraud Risk Assessment; Knowledge; Public Sector; Malaysia

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah, Fraud and Forensic Accounting: Knowledge and Risk Assessment Task Performance in Malaysian Public Sector – Conceptual Study (January 2, 2014). 4th Annual International Conference on Accounting and Finance, 2014, DOI: 10.5176/2251-1997_AF14.55, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2655224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
W S Selamah
Current status of public sector accounting in Malaysia and the way forward
The National Public Sector Accountants Conference (NAPSAC 2011) Posted: 2011-06
Pwc
PwC's 2011 Global Economic Crime Survey finds economic crime in Malaysia continues to increase. 6th Global Economic Crime Survey. Retrieved on February 14 Posted: 2011
Coso
Internal Control Framework: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Posted: 2011
L S Peen
No industry or company in any country is immune from the impact of fraud". 6th Global Economic Crime Survey. Kuala Lumpur Posted: 2011-11-30
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
RANK
193,883
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Public Law - Crime, Criminal Law, & Punishment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies