Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Independent Directors Monitor Financial Reporting? Evidence from Accounting Misstatements Following Stock Exchange Listing Requirements

Posted: 18 Sep 2015

Andrew Stephen McMartin

University of Miami

Abigail Awad

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting; UIC

Date Written: September 16, 2015

Abstract

A wave of accounting failures at the beginning of the century motivated the national stock exchanges to require firms to maintain a majority independent board of directors. Approximately 24% of firms were not already in compliance with the new listing requirements and so were forced to change. We investigate the causal effect of this forced increase in board independence (outside directors) on the probability of an accounting misstatement. Existing empirical studies find a negative relation between board independence and the probability of a misstatement (Beasley 1996, Dechow et al. 1996), but recent theory suggests that independent directors might be less effective monitors (Adams and Ferreira 2007, Harris and Raviv 2008). Using an instrumental variables design, we find that the forced increase in board independence increased the probability of misstatements. The findings suggest that the listing requirements had the opposite of their intended effect.

Keywords: Board Independence, Accounting Misstatement

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

McMartin, Andrew Stephen and Awad, Abigail and Awad, Abigail, Do Independent Directors Monitor Financial Reporting? Evidence from Accounting Misstatements Following Stock Exchange Listing Requirements (September 16, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2661749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2661749
 Not Available for Download
26 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals*
Journal of law and economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
K R Ahern , A K Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,887
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies