Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Money Laundering and Audit Fees

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Sep 2015 Last revised: 12 Oct 2017

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Mostafa Monzur Hasan

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; Macquarie University

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Date Written: October 12, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the association between state-level money laundering sentences and audit fees in the US. Money laundering measures a broad category of offenses involving financial transactions using funds or monetary instruments gained through criminal activities and tax evasion. We find that firms headquartered in US states with high rates of money laundering sentences pay more audit fees. Our results suggest that auditors incorporate, as a fee premium, the higher risks involved when clients operate in those states. Our result remains robust to alternative specifications of money laundering proxies, and to the inclusion of a number of firm-level and state-level control variables. We also conduct two-stage least squares and propensity score matching analysis to mitigate the endogeneity problem that might arise from omitted variables, reverse causality or model misspecification problems. Findings from this study expand our knowledge in understanding the effect of state-level money laundering on firm-level outcomes.

Keywords: Audit fees; money laundering; tax haven; audit risks

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Hasan, Mostafa Monzur and Al-Hadi, Ahmed, Money Laundering and Audit Fees (October 12, 2017). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2662245
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,547
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies