Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Risk of Fraud in Published IFRS and Nigerian GAAP Financial Reports: A Comparative Application of the Beneish Models

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 1, January 2015, pp. 21-42

Posted: 6 Oct 2015

Dr. Ugochukwu Nwoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy, Students

Justina Obiorah

Federal Polytechnic Oko

Ekesiobi Chukwunonso

Anambra State University

Date Written: September 28, 2015

Abstract

With the adoption of IFRS on January 1, 2012, the publicly listed companies in Nigeria had their existing financial reporting frameworks that were based on Nigerian GAAP (SASs) alternated with the IASB’s new accounting standards. Although the manufacturing sectors of the Nigerian economy had, prior to the adoption, shared in the after-effect of the global economic distress that was chiefly engineered by a series of corporate failures and financial scandals, the advent of the new principle-based international accounting guidelines appears to have successfully re-engaged the interest and confidence of users of financial statements in the stewardship of listed companies in Nigeria. Thus, comparatively deploying and applying the Beneish 8-factored and 5-factored variables within relevant items of the financial reports of 11 selected manufacturing companies in Nigeria for the period 2008-2013, was considered adequate to ascertain the financial reporting quality of the post IFRS published financial statements in comparison with those of the Nigerian GAAP within the weightings of ‘material misstatement’. Although the study found that the 5-factored variables (Beneish 1997 model version) appear to be more effective in predicting genuine existing risks of material misstatement and provide promises for the effective avoidance of the Type II error among users of the two models, the 8-factored variables seem to have revealed more incidence of possible risk of material misstatement among the companies studied.

Suggested Citation:

Nwoye, Dr. Ugochukwu and Obiorah, Justina and Chukwunonso, Ekesiobi, Assessing the Risk of Fraud in Published IFRS and Nigerian GAAP Financial Reports: A Comparative Application of the Beneish Models (September 28, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 1, January 2015, pp. 21-42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2666386
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies