Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment on Forensic Skills and Mindsets: A Conceptual Model

8th Asian Business Research Conference (WBI) 2013, Bangkok, Thailand World Business Institute

13 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2015

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Rushami Zien Yusoff

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: September 27, 2015

Abstract

This paper discusses the impact of task performance, fraud risk assessment and forensic accountants and auditors’ skills and mindsets in the Nigerian public sector. It also draws the attention of the users of public sector accountants and auditors such as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, the Independent and Corrupt Practices Commission, Special Control Unit of Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing and white collar crimes. The objective of the study is to enhance the fraud risk assessment task performance in the Office of both Auditor General for the Federation and Accountant General of the Federation through the effective use of skills and mindsets (forensic accountant vs. auditor), which will usher in the best corporate governance practices in the Nigerian public sector. Thus, the study suggests performance measurement can be improved considering the impact of forensic accountant skills and mindsets on fraud risk assessment in the Nigerian public sector.

Keywords: Fraud Forensics; Accounting; Accountability; Forensic Accounting; Auditing; Assurance; Corporate Governance; Risk Management; Investigation; Risk Assessment; Task Performance; Problem Representation; Skills; Mindset; Knowledge; Values; Ethics; Fraud Risk Assessment; Financial Criminology; Fraud

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah and Zien Yusoff, Rushami, The Impact of Task Performance Fraud Risk Assessment on Forensic Skills and Mindsets: A Conceptual Model (September 27, 2015). 8th Asian Business Research Conference (WBI) 2013, Bangkok, Thailand World Business Institute, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2666192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2666192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R A Adams
Public Sector Accounting and Finance Made Simple" 3 rd. Edition Posted: 2004
F A Adebisi
Audit, Investigation and Forensics -Similarities and Differences. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria: Forensic, Audit & Investigation Faculty Posted: 2011-02
Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences Act 1995, Federal Ministry of Information
Albrecht , Romney , Mb
Red-flagging Management Fraud: A Validation
Advances in Accounting , volume 3 , p. 323 - 333 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,527
RANK
303,587
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies