Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Offsetting Misstatements: The Effect of Misstatement Distribution, Quantitative Materiality and Client Pressure on Auditors' Judgments

The Accounting Review 93 (4), 335–357

ESCP Business School Research Paper

Posted: 9 Oct 2015 Last revised: 21 Sep 2018

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: September 16, 2017

Abstract

This paper reports on the first experimental study to examine how materiality and client pressure affects auditors’ judgments of two detected misstatements that have offsetting effects on the client’s income. One hundred and forty-three experienced German auditors completed a case that varied the misstatement distribution (same or different accounts), the presence or absence of client pressure, and quantitative materiality of the misstatements nested in the client pressure condition (net amount less than or greater than performance materiality). The results show: First, the distribution of the misstatements and client pressure interact. The proportion of auditors who require the client to fully adjust both misstatements is highest when the offsetting misstatements are in two different accounts and there is no client pressure. Second, misstatement distribution interacts with quantitative materiality. The proportion of auditors who deny the bonus when facing client pressure is highest when the level of materiality is greater than performance materiality and the misstatement distribution is in different accounts. Third, audit experience appears to play a role in the auditors’ judgments. While more experienced auditors are more likely to fully correct the misstatements when there is no client pressure, they are also more likely to waive the misstatements when faced with client pressure. Additional experimentation confirms these findings. These results have important implications for researchers, practitioners, regulators, and standard setters.

Keywords: Client pressure, Materiality, Motivated reasoning, Offsetting misstatements

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Messier Jr, William F. and Schmidt, Martin, Offsetting Misstatements: The Effect of Misstatement Distribution, Quantitative Materiality and Client Pressure on Auditors' Judgments (September 16, 2017). The Accounting Review 93 (4), 335–357 , ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2671445 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2671445
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,695
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies