Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Statutory Auditors’ Independence in the Context of Corporate Accounting Scandal: A Comparative Study of Enron and Satyam

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 2, April 2015, pp. 7-28

Posted: 13 Oct 2015

Mitrendu Roy

University of Calcutta - Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration

Date Written: October 13, 2015

Abstract

Professional accountants external to the organization are appointed by statute of law to verify the authenticity of financial statements of an organization. They are commonly known as statutory auditors. Since financial decision of a large part of the society related to the business depends upon their opinion, statutory auditors play a significant role in the economy. CAs in India, CPAs in USA execute the task of statutory audit of financial statements. Integrity, independence and unbiased functioning of statutory auditors are extremely essential for protection of stakeholders’ interest. Therefore, professional institutes (e.g., ICAI in India; AICPA in US) governing statutory auditors enforce certain regulatory pronouncements for them to attain this goal. In present-day economic environment, greed and tremendous urge to survive in the cutthroat competitions tempt some company managements to breach accounting laws and manipulate financial statements. Accounting misdeeds in the financial statement eventually come under regulatory radar leading to the company’s demise, impacting most of its stakeholders. Every time a scandal is revealed, automatically questions on auditors’ honesty and independence are raised. In all those frauds, it was found that threats to statutory auditors’ independence were acute and safeguards to reduce those threats were ineffective. Among many scandals in different parts of the globe, two notable scandals were Enron scandal in USA and Satyam scandal in India. In the context of current regulatory framework governing statutory audit in both the countries, this study attempts to analyze statutory auditors’ independence in these two scandals and draws a comparison between them based on certain parameters.

Suggested Citation:

Roy, Mitrendu, Statutory Auditors’ Independence in the Context of Corporate Accounting Scandal: A Comparative Study of Enron and Satyam (October 13, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 2, April 2015, pp. 7-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2673339
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,029
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies