Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Violence, Aggression, and Ethics: The Link between Exposure to Human Violence and Unethical Behavior

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

26 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2015

Joshua R. Gubler

Brigham Young University - Department of Political Science

Skye Herrick

Google Inc.

Richard A. Price

University of Oklahoma

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 20, 2015

Abstract

Can exposure to media portrayals of human violence impact an individual’s ethical decision making at work? Ethical business failures can result in enormous financial losses to individuals, businesses, and society. We study how exposure to human violence — especially through media — can cause individuals to make less ethical decisions. We present three experiments, each showing a causal link between exposure to human violence and unethical business behavior, and show this relationship is mediated by an increase in individual hostility levels as a result of exposure to violence. Using observational data, we then provide evidence suggesting that this relationship extends beyond the context of our experiments, showing that companies headquartered in locations marked by greater human violence are more likely to fraudulently misstate their financial statements and exhibit more aggressive financial reporting. Combined, our results suggest that exposure to human violence has significant and real effects on an individual’s ethical decision making.

Keywords: Violence, Aggression, Ethics, Hostility, Dehumanization

JEL Classification: M00, M1, M4, M41, J1

Suggested Citation:

Gubler, Joshua R. and Herrick, Skye and Price, Richard A. and Wood, David A., Violence, Aggression, and Ethics: The Link between Exposure to Human Violence and Unethical Behavior (October 20, 2015). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2676813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2014-04
C A Anderson , B J Bushman
Effects of violent video games on aggressive behavior, aggressive cognition, aggressive affect, physiological arousal, and prosocial behavior: a metaanalytic review of the scientific literature
Psychological Science , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 353 - 359 Posted: 2001
Crossref
C A Anderson , B J Bushman
The effects of media violence on society
Science , volume 295 , p. 2377 - 78 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C A Anderson , W E Deuser , K Deneve
Hot temperatures, hostile affect, hostile cognition, and arousal: Tests of a general model of affective aggression
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 21 , p. 434 - 448 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,047
RANK
175,011
4 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies