Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Forensic Accountants' Role: Global Regulatory Action Scenario

International Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 1, No. 1, 2013

19 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2015

Madan Lal Bhasin

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: October 20, 2015

Abstract

An increasing number of researchers are finding that ‘poor’ corporate governance (CG) is a leading factor in poor performance, manipulated financial reports, and unhappy stakeholders. Corporations and regulatory bodies are now trying to analyse and correct any existing defects in their reporting system. In the current reporting environment, forensic accountants are in great demand for their accounting, auditing, legal, and investigative skills. Forensic accountants are positioned to explore the design of CG systems, the role of the financial reporting system in CG, the effect of the governance board on employee and managerial behaviour, and the efficacy of the internal control systems. As part of the governance committee, Forensic Accountants can make significant contributions in the area of CG, fraud prevention and investigation, creating positive work environment, establishing effective lines of communication and vigilant oversight. An attempt is also made here to portray global regulatory action scenario undertaken by leading bodies to prevent corporate frauds and improve CG through accounting reforms. In nutshell, the Forensic Accountant is “a blood-hound of book-keeping.”

Keywords: Corporate governance, forensic accounting, forensic accountant, global regulatory action scenario

Suggested Citation:

Bhasin, Madan Lal, Corporate Governance and Forensic Accountants' Role: Global Regulatory Action Scenario (October 20, 2015). International Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 1, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2676468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2676468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D L Crumbley , L E Heitger , G S Smith
Forensic and Investigative Accounting Posted: 2007
Brian R. Cheffins
The History of Corporate Governance
OXFORD HANDBOOK OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, Mike Wright, Donald Siegel, Kevin Keasey and Igor Filatotchev, eds., Oxford University Press, 2013, University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 54/2011, ECGI - Law Working Paper No. 184/2012 Pages: 38 Posted: 22 Dec 2011 Last revised: 20 May 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Kahan
Sherlock Holmes of Accounting
Accounting Today , volume 18 , issue 10 , p. 1 - 2 Posted: 2004
M L Bhasin
Forensic Accounting: A New Paradigm for Niche Consulting
The Chartered Accountant , p. 1000 - 1010 Posted: 2007-01
Load more
1 Citations
Mário Papík , Lenka Papíková
DETECTION MODELS FOR UNINTENTIONAL FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS
Journal of Business Economics and Management , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 64 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
610
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,739
RANK
101,005
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies