Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Survey of Appropriate Skills Required by Forensic Accountants: Empirical Evidence from a Developing Economy

International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies, 1 (2) (2013) 53-73

21 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2015

Madan Lal Bhasin

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: October 20, 2015

Abstract

Accounting frauds and scams are perennial. They occurred in all eras and in all countries, and affected many organizations, regardless of their size, location, or industry. From Enron and WorldCom in 2001 to Madoff and Satyam in 2009, accounting frauds and scams have been dominating news items in the past decade. Corporations and regulatory bodies are trying their best to analyze and correct existing defects in their reporting system. After having an overview of the fraud scenario in India, it is apparent that criminals have become technology-savvy, and invented newer schemes to perpetuate crimes. In the current reporting environment of "digital-age," forensic accountants (FA’s) are in great demand for their "niche" accounting, auditing, legal and investigative skills. Hence, "forensic" accounting has been thrown in the "forefront of the crusade" against financial deception and accounting scandals.

The present study investigates through a questionnaire, which was conducted in three leading States of the national capital region (NCR) of India during 2011-12, "if there are differences in the views of the relevant skills of FA’s among accounting practitioners, academics, and users of forensic accounting services." From the statistical test of the hypotheses propounded for this study, we discovered that "core skills are not enough requirements for FA’s, there are significant differences in the relevant skills of FA’s, as given by previous researchers with the current research, and the necessary skills of FA’s, as identified by both academics and professionals, will hopefully meet employers’ expectations too." Therefore, FA’s, being professional experts having "sixth" sense and possessing ‘special’ skills are urgently required to counter all the ingenuity of these criminals. At present, some Universities in India are considering adding forensic accounting course to their curriculum. The results of this study may provide some guidance to educators for the development of forensic accounting curriculum by identifying the pertinent skills to accompany such a program of study.

Suggested Citation:

Bhasin, Madan Lal, Survey of Appropriate Skills Required by Forensic Accountants: Empirical Evidence from a Developing Economy (October 20, 2015). International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies, 1 (2) (2013) 53-73, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2676512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2676512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
The 2011 Forensic and Valuation Services Trend Survey Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Aderibigbe
The Role of the Forensic Chartered Accountant
The Nigeria Accountant , p. 15 - 20 Posted: 2000-07
N Ahadiat
Skills Necessary for a Successful Career in Accounting
Journal of the Department of Accounting Posted: 2010
M D Akers , G L Porter
Your EQ Skills: Got What It Takes?
Journal of Accountancy , volume 195 , issue 3 , p. 65 - 69 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,998
RANK
190,292
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies