Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fear as a Motivation to Commit Management Fraud: A Conceptual Paper Regarding Ethics and Executive Accounting

5th International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship: Baltimore, Maryland, September 10-13, 2015

26 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2015

Frank Lombardo

Jacksonville University (Florida)

Date Written: September 10, 2015

Abstract

Motivators for financial statement fraud are different than for traditional fraud that involved theft, management fraud and misappropriation of assets, respectively. Traditional theft of assets involves some element of greed and financial pressure is probably the most likely motivator for these frauds. Management fraud, the intentional misstatement of financial results in reports filed with regulatory agencies and made known to the public through various media, however is quite different in what is being attempted. Although there can be gain to the company, the fraud itself is not gaining financial position for management as much as it is preventing the loss of financial position. This is motivation for executives that revolve around potential damages to their ego when their failed vision for the company is known. This loss or reputation and status for the company executive creates a primary motivator that is the fear of failure. The executive also can entertain persistent, possibly delusional rationalizations for the hope for success in turning the situation around. This conceptual paper explores models for applying this idea to current fraud theory. It also posits that proper risk management evaluation can assist in reducing the incidence of management fraud not just by reducing the likelihood of losses occurring that can act as a catalyst for management fraud but by providing plans for addressing potential negative downturns when they occur that mitigates the strength of this fear.

Keywords: Management Fraud, Risk, Reputation, Financial Statement Fraud, Ethics

Suggested Citation:

Lombardo, Frank, Fear as a Motivation to Commit Management Fraud: A Conceptual Paper Regarding Ethics and Executive Accounting (September 10, 2015). 5th International Conference on Engaged Management Scholarship: Baltimore, Maryland, September 10-13, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2676350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2676350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
W Albrecht , K Howe , M Romney
Deterring Fraud: the Internal Auditor's Perspective
The Institute of Internal Auditors' Research Foundation Posted: 1984
&amp; Anderson , Nathe
Center Stage: Humiliation, Being Found Out, and the Myth of Supercompetence
Child & Youth Services , volume 30 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 85 - 96 Posted: 2008
S Arbogast
Resisting Corporate Corruption 2nd Edition Posted: 2013
K C Bhattacharya
Reporting surgical errors: Myth or Reality
Indian Journal of Surgery , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 18 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,502
RANK
172,005
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies