Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contribution of Forensic Accounting to Corporate Governance: An Exploratory Study of an Asian Country

International Business Management, 10 (4), 2016

14 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2015

Madan Lal Bhasin

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: August 20, 2015

Abstract

The recent accounting scandals (viz., Enron, WorldCom, Madoff, Satyam, etc.) have induced a crisis of confidence in financial reporting practice and effectiveness of corporate governance (CG) mechanisms. Indeed, Forensic accounting (FA) integrates accounting, auditing and investigative skills to conduct investigations in variety of fraud cases. Thus, an increasing number of researchers are finding that ‘poor’ CG is a leading factor in dismal performance, manipulated financial reports, and unhappy stakeholders. Some leading corporations and regulatory bodies, however, are trying their best efforts to analyze and correct the existing loopholes in the reporting system. In the 21st century, the Forensic Chartered Accountants (FCAs) are in great demand and “FA is listed among the top-20 careers of the future.” During 2011-12, a questionnaire-based survey was conducted in the National Capital Region of India using a sample size of 120 practicing chartered accountants, accounting academics, and potential users of FA services. In fact, this study is a ‘preliminary’ investigation of the necessary skills, education and training requirements for the professional community. The results of this ‘exploratory’ study, with few minor differences, indicate that potential practitioners, academics and users agree that “critical thinking, written & oral communication, legal knowledge, auditing skills, deductive analysis, investigative flexibility, analytical proficiency and unstructured problem-solving are the most important skills required for the FCAs.” Moreover, we found that all of the skills investigated in this study are ‘potentially’ important for the FCAs, which the educators at the Universities should use as an overall guide while designing their FA curriculum.”

Keywords: Forensic accounting, forensic chartered accountants, corporate governance, Asian country, financial reporting, regulatory bodies

Suggested Citation:

Bhasin, Madan Lal, Contribution of Forensic Accounting to Corporate Governance: An Exploratory Study of an Asian Country (August 20, 2015). International Business Management, 10 (4), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2676488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2676488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Madan Lal Bhasin
Creative Accounting Practices in the Indian Corporate Sector: An Empirical Study
International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 4, No. 10, October 2015 · 18 Pages · Posted: 15 Dec 2015 · Downloads: 1,463
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Madan Lal Bhasin
Accounting Manipulations in Corporate Financial Reports: Study of an Asian Market.
International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, l-5, Issue 11, 2016 · 24 Pages · Posted: 7 Dec 2016 · Downloads: 318
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,954
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,929
RANK
19,313
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies