Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Can Companies Learn from Volkswagen Business Unethical Behaviour?

Posted: 23 Oct 2015

Professor Alain Ndedi

International Council for Family Business; YENEPAD; Saint Monica University; University of Johannesburg; University of Pretoria; Prime Light Open University

Yota Kuete

Saint Monica University

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Michael Kouwos

Independent

Date Written: October 23, 2015

Abstract

Business ethics is seen as a form of applied ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment, and apply to all aspects of business conduct of individuals and or organizations. (Ndedi, 2012) During the past decades, the economic world has experienced the collapse of many well established corporations like WorldCom, Enron, Brent Spar, and the difficulties encountered by Nike and GAP with the sourcing of their products from developing countries. In the same line, and more recently, the bankruptcy of the Lehmans Brothers and other financial institutions have sparked a huge anxiety from the public regarding the business environment. (Ndedi, 2011) Now, it is the issue with Volkswagen’s installation of a software defeat device in 11 million sold worldwide.

The current paper highlights the failures of a compliance mindset, and shows that ethics are typically considered in terms of staying within certain externally enforced rules and regulations. The paper recommends that the current Volkswagen situation requires an overhaul of the regulatory structure, business ethics, corporate culture, and also engineering education within Volkswagen and other companies involved in such unethical behaviours. To this, the paper advised that laws and their enforcement need to be tightened so that people have something to fear. With regard to capacity building, business and corporate ethics programmes are needed to capacitate workers. These programmes could then more clearly outline consequences of ethics violations, criminal charges and prison sentences. Finally, the paper shows that unethical behaviours even when they are hidden will be punished sooner or later.

Keywords: Ethics, Compliance, Ndedi Alain

Suggested Citation:

Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Kuete, Yota and Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua and Kouwos, Michael, What Can Companies Learn from Volkswagen Business Unethical Behaviour? (October 23, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2678887
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,536
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies