Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Fraud Prevention and Detection: Revisiting the Literature

Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research, Volume 4, Issue 1, January 2015, pp 35-45

11 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2015 Last revised: 13 Mar 2017

Deepa Mangala

Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology - Haryana School of Business

Pooja Kumari

Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology - Haryana School of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

Fraud has become a worldwide phenomenon and prime issue of concern. It dwells in all countries and affects all types of organisations irrespective of their size, profitability or industry. The primary objective of this paper is to provide an in-depth understanding of literature related to corporate fraud in order to understand ‘why’ fraud occurs and ‘how’ to combat it. Research studies published during the period commencing from the year 1984 to 2014 have been reviewed. The study aims to provide an in-depth discussion on significant red flags that may exist before fraud occurrence. It, also, provides a comprehensive view about fraud detection and prevention methods. Findings reveal that red flag is an important mechanism to prevent fraud. Application of single fraud detection technique will not curb the fraud effectively. Also, the top executives were found to be responsible for implementing anti-fraud policies and techniques within business organisation. Further, the present study tries to discern the research gap in existing literature and explore the area of future research.

Keywords: Corporate Fraud, Forensic Accounting, Red flag, Fraud Detection, Fraud Prevention

Suggested Citation:

Mangala, Deepa and Kumari, Pooja, Corporate Fraud Prevention and Detection: Revisiting the Literature (January 1, 2015). Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research, Volume 4, Issue 1, January 2015, pp 35-45, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2678909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Report to nations on occupational fraud and abuse, 2014 global fraud survey
of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2014
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounitng Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson
Fraudulent financial reporting: Consideration of industry traits and corporate governance mechanisms
Accounting Horizons , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 441 - 454 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J L Bierstaker , R G Brody , C Pacini
Accountants' parceptions regarding fraud detection and prevention methods
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 5 , p. 520 - 535 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Syeda Rida Zehra Rizvi
ROLE OF BIG DATA IN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS FOR FINANCIAL FRAUD
35 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 143
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,889
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,913
RANK
6,372
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies