Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Special Masters in Federal Tax Cases

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Volume 7: No. 2, July - December, 2015, pp. 1-30

Posted: 31 Oct 2015 Last revised: 2 Nov 2015

Brigitte Muehlmann

Babson College

Priscilla Ann Burnaby

Bentley University

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

The role of a special master is to aid a court in complex civil trial or appeals proceedings. The court appoints a special master and establishes the allocation of the master’s compensation to the parties in the case. This study is the first to analyze the use of special masters in federal tax litigation as disclosed in 79 court opinions through 2012. Utilizing the case survey archival research method, this paper provides insights into the use of special masters in federal tax cases. Beginning in 1924, District Courts were the first to disclose the use of special masters and their roles. Magistrate judges and lawyers have been most frequently disclosed as special masters. Since 2001, accountants have been disclosed as special masters in two federal tax cases. They have acted as post-trial and consent special masters. Both assignments included auditing financial data. Some assignments performed by unidentified special masters were also within the scope of forensic accounting. Appeals courts overturned only a few decisions that were based on errors made by special masters and when a judge either did not give due regard to a special master’s fact finding or applied a clearly erroneous standard. As accounting is one of the recognized special master subject areas, the authors suggest that forensic accountants could help courts with additional assignments in fact-driven complex civil tax cases.

Keywords: Special master, Special trial judge, Tax Case, Complexity Factors

JEL Classification: M4, H2, K34, K41

Suggested Citation:

Muehlmann, Brigitte and Burnaby, Priscilla Ann, The Role of Special Masters in Federal Tax Cases (July 1, 2015). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Volume 7: No. 2, July - December, 2015, pp. 1-30, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684543
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
779
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies