Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Warning Signals of the Impending Lehman Brothers’ Bankruptcy Filing

JFAR Vol I, 2013

17 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2015

Pamela Hurley

Utica College

Richard E Hurley

University of Connecticut

Date Written: November 2, 2015

Abstract

Although Lehman Brothers’ filed for bankruptcy in September of 2008, there were signals within the 2007 financial statements that provided information supporting a conclusion that bankruptcy was a foreseeable event. There were leading liquidity indicators auditors should have questioned the validity of Lehman Brothers being a going concern. The purpose of this article is to utilize the 2007 financial statements of the 158 year old global financial investment services firm, Lehman Brothers, to demonstrate how the changes in cash flows from operations, financial lending ratios, and bankruptcy prediction model results created sufficient knowledge for auditors to question the assumption that Lehman Brothers was a going concern company.

Suggested Citation:

Hurley, Pamela and Hurley, Richard E, Warning Signals of the Impending Lehman Brothers’ Bankruptcy Filing (November 2, 2015). JFAR Vol I, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
V Agarwal , R J Taffler
Twenty-five Years of the Taffler Z-score Model: Does It Really Have Predictive Ability?" Accounting and Business Research , volume 37 , p. 285 - 300 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968-09
Crossref
Going Concern Evidence Statement on Auditing Standards No. 59 Posted: 1988
Auditor's Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern: AU Section 341 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,475
RANK
29,620
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies