Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolving Roles of Accountants as Resources for Greater Accountability in Financial Reporting, Legislative and Judicial Processes

Value Relevance of Accounting Information in Capital Markets IGI Global Publications 2016

5 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2015 Last revised: 14 Dec 2016

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Jeanette Van Akkeren

Queensland University of Technology

Date Written: November 10, 2015

Abstract

Jeanette Van Akkeren, Sherrena Buckby, Kim MacKenzie ("A Metamorphosis of the Traditional Accountant: An Insight into Forensic Accounting Services in Australia") argue that there remains some confusion on what constitutes the role of a forensic professional.

It is very well the case that clarity of the definition of what constitutes the role of a forensic professional is crucial to determining how effectively such a role can be harnessed. As well as exploring the various roles undertaken by forensic accountants based in the US and other selected common law jurisdictions, this publication aims to contribute to the extant literature on how the role of a forensic professional can be effectively utilized and applied, both from common law and comparative based perspectives - which involve selected jurisdictions that constitute the focus of this study.

In so doing it also highlights how a greater degree of accountability and transparency can be introduced into the financial reporting, as well as legal process.

Keywords: accountability, transparency, common law systems, forensic accounting

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne and Van Akkeren, Jeanette, Evolving Roles of Accountants as Resources for Greater Accountability in Financial Reporting, Legislative and Judicial Processes (November 10, 2015). Value Relevance of Accounting Information in Capital Markets IGI Global Publications 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2688719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2688719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K J Barzegari
Value Relevance of Accounting Information in Selected Middle East Countries Posted: 2010
. C J Chen , Chen S X Su
Is Accounting Information Value-Relevant in the Emerging Chinese Stock Market
Journal of International Accounting Auditing and Taxation , volume 10 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Khanagha
Value Relevance of Accounting Information in the Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,021
RANK
521,283
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies