Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Investor Perceptions About Financial Statement Fraud and Their Use of Red Flags: Evidence from the Field

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 20, No. 4, 2015

Posted: 10 Nov 2015

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Keith L. Jones

University of Kansas

Jane M. Thayer

Georgia Institute of Technology

Rick C. Warne

University of San Diego

Date Written: November 9, 2015

Abstract

We surveyed 194 experienced, nonprofessional investors to examine the relations between their perceptions of the frequency of financial reporting fraud, their use of financial statement information, the importance they place on conducting their own fraud risk assessments, and their use of fraud red flags. We find that investors’ perceptions of the frequency of fraud and their use of financial statement information positively influence the importance they place on conducting their own fraud risk assessments. Investors who place importance on assessing fraud risk make greater use of fraud red flags to avoid fraudulent investments. Red flags commonly relied upon include SEC investigations, pending litigation, violations of debt covenants, and high management turnover. Investors rely less on company size and age, the need for external financing, and the use of a non-Big 4 auditor. We also find evidence of positive associations between the use of specific red flags and investors’ portfolio returns.

Keywords: Financial statements, Fraud red flags, Fraud risk, Investors

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Jones, Keith Lamar and Thayer, Jane M. and Warne, Rick C., Understanding Investor Perceptions About Financial Statement Fraud and Their Use of Red Flags: Evidence from the Field (November 9, 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 20, No. 4, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2688283
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,714
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies