Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud and Corruption Practices in the Public Sector; the Impact of Forensic Accountants: Comparative Study of Cameroon and Nigeria

Posted: 10 Nov 2015 Last revised: 24 Feb 2021

Professor Alain Ndedi

International Council for Family Business; YENEPAD; Saint Monica University; University of Johannesburg; University of Pretoria; Prime Light Open University

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: November 9, 2015

Abstract

The current study research is based on a Doctorate dissertation conducted by Mr. Kelly Mua Kingsley under the supervision of Professor Alain Ndedi, assisted by Professor JJ Asongu and Professor Rafael Bisaliev at the Saint Monica University. Fraud and Corruption Practices in Public Sector; the impact of forensic accountants: Comparative Study of Cameroon and Nigeria’ Fraud and corruption have eaten deep into the fabric of most economies with grievous effects that have limited the growth and infrastructural development of many nations and led many firms to the road of bankruptcy. Fraud is rarely seen but the symptoms of fraud are usually observed. Over the years, fraud and corruption has eaten deep into virtually all sectors in developing nations to the deterrence of real growth. The study is to determine the level of fraud and corrupt practices and how to curb the menace in Cameroon and Nigeria.

Since this study intends to compare fraud and corruption (FAC) practice in public sector in Cameroon and Nigeria, the broken trust theory is preferred because it provides a framework to uncover the determinants of and possible motivations behind FAC practice in the public sector of an economy.

To achieve this, a grand total of 750 copies of questionnaire were distributed among selected auditors, academics, forensic experts, law enforcement agents, risk managers and Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) employees (junior and senior staff) and private sector employees. In addition, survey research method was used to obtain primary data that were collated, analyzed, summarized and interpreted accordingly, with the aid of statistical tools considered appropriate for the study. The findings presented graphically and in a tabular form using charts, Percentile Average for comparative analysis of data obtained in MDAs in Cameroon and Nigeria.

The research finding shows that there is significant relationship between fraud and corruption practice and economic growth and development in the public sector in Cameroon and Nigeria. Based on the findings of this study, it is recommended that for an effective and enduring anti-corruption campaign, each component MDAs in the Public Sector need to localize government’s efforts to sanitize the polity.

Keywords: Fraud, Corruption, Cameroon, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Fraud and Corruption Practices in the Public Sector; the Impact of Forensic Accountants: Comparative Study of Cameroon and Nigeria (November 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2688042
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,902
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies