Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Study of Frauds in the Banks

European Journal of Business and Social Sciences, Vol. 4, No. 07, October 2015

12 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2015

Madan Lal Bhasin

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Banks are the engines that drive the operations in the financial sector, money markets and growth of an economy. With the rapidly growing banking industry in India, frauds in banks are also increasing very fast, and fraudsters have started using innovative methods. As part of the study, a questionnaire-based survey was conducted in 2012-13 among 345 bank employees “to know their perception towards bank frauds and evaluate the factors that influence the degree of their compliance level.” The study revealed that there are poor employment practices and lack of effective training; over-burdened staff, weak internal control systems, and low compliance levels on the part of Bank Managers, Offices and Clerks.

Although banks cannot be 100% secure against unknown threats, a certain level of preparedness can go a long way in countering fraud risk. Internal audit professionals should play an integral role in their organization's fraud-fighting efforts. Some of other promising steps to control frauds are: educate customers about fraud prevention, make application of laws more stringent, leverage the power of data analysis technologies, follow fraud mitigation best practices, and employ multipoint scrutiny. In 2015, the RBI has introduced new mechanisms for banks to check loan frauds by taking pro-active steps by setting up a Central Fraud Registry, introduced the concept of Red Flagged Account, and Indian investigative agencies (CBI, CEIB) will soon start sharing their databases with banks.

Keywords: Bank frauds, India, developing economy, RBI, internal controls, use of technology

Suggested Citation:

Bhasin, Madan Lal, An Empirical Study of Frauds in the Banks (2015). European Journal of Business and Social Sciences, Vol. 4, No. 07, October 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2703640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D G Banks
The Fight against Fraud
Internal Auditor , p. 34 - 47 Posted: 2004-04
S K Baruah
RBI Chief Wants PMO to Act against Bank Frauds Worth Rs. 17,500 crore, The Hindustan Times Posted: 2015-04-24
M L Bhasin
Audit Committee Scenario and Trends in a Developing Country
School of Doctoral Studies European Union Journal , volume 4 , p. 53 - 70 Posted: 2012
M L Bhasin
Corporate Governance and Forensic Accountant: An Exploratory Study
Journal of Accounting, Business and Management , issue 2 , p. 55 - 75 Posted: 1920
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,917
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,272
RANK
19,934
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies