Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securities Class Actions Compared to Derivative Lawsuits: Evidence from the Stock Option Backdating Litigation on Their Relative Disciplining of Fraudster Executives

Journal Of Forensic And Investigative Accounting. Volume 8, Issue 2.

33 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2016

Ross D. Fuerman

Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 25, 2016

Abstract

This is the first comprehensive examination of the stock option backdating litigation. One reason why it is important to study the stock option backdating litigation is that it was a blend of financial reporting fraud and executive misappropriation of assets. Sometimes the executive misappropriation of assets did not result in materially misstated financial statements under the federal securities laws, even if they did under accounting or auditing standards. This scenario is unique and thus provides a unique research opportunity, since typical financial reporting litigation usually results in materially misstated financial statements under the federal securities laws.

A second reason why it is important to study the stock option backdating litigation is that about 35% of it included securities class actions, while the remainder was comprised solely of derivative lawsuits. This provides another unique research opportunity, as most litigation is comprised almost entirely of only securities class actions or only derivative lawsuits. Thus, it is possible to compare and contrast securities class actions with derivative lawsuits. This is particularly useful because some question the value of securities class actions. This part of the research is in a sense an extension of the work of Choi and Pritchard (2014), who found evidence that securities class actions are more effective than SEC enforcement actions at forcing out fraudster executives.

Using the empirical archival research method, the comparison of stock option backdating litigation to typical financial reporting litigation revealed that the stock option backdating litigation is negatively associated with auditor defendants, bankruptcy, and the amount of the settlement with the stockholders. It is positively associated with US companies, companies in the computer industry sectors, and restatements for stock option backdating.

Also using the empirical archival research method, the examination within the stock option backdating litigation indicated that the derivative lawsuits are negatively associated with auditor defendants, fraud, revenue restatements, and the forced departure of stock option backdating fraudster executives. Thus, securities class actions have value beyond derivative lawsuits. They are a stronger ex post disciplining mechanism, providing stronger deterrence against future executive fraud.

Keywords: Stock option backdating; Accountability; Fraud deterrence; Securities class actions; Derivative lawsuits

JEL Classification: K22, K41, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Fuerman, Ross D., Securities Class Actions Compared to Derivative Lawsuits: Evidence from the Stock Option Backdating Litigation on Their Relative Disciplining of Fraudster Executives (January 25, 2016). Journal Of Forensic And Investigative Accounting. Volume 8, Issue 2., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2722046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. APB Opinion No. 25 Posted: 1973
C Abbott
The shareholder derivative suit as a response to stock option backdating
Saint Louis University Law Journal , volume 53 , p. 593 - 627 Posted: 2009
Audit Analytics Posted: 1988
D Belsley , E Kuh , R Welsch
Regression Diagnostics, Identifying Influential Data and Sources of Collinearity Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,062
RANK
362,694
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies