Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Mining Journal Entries for Fraud Detection: A Replication of Debreceny and Gray’s (2010) Techniques

Journal of Forensics and Investigative Accounting, Vol. 8(3) July-December 2016: 501-514

24 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2016 Last revised: 10 Feb 2017

Poh-Sun Seow

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Themin Suwardy

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

There is limited published research to detect financial statement fraud using digital analysis to analyse journal entry data. As far as we are aware, Debreceny and Gray’s (2010) study is the first and only such study. In this study, we replicated and extended Debreceny and Gray’s (2010) work by examining generalizability of their techniques beyond subjects from USA. Besides Chi-Square test, we also explored the use of mean absolute deviation method during digital analysis. We found Debreceny and Gray’s (2010) techniques useful in facilitating cross-sectional analysis for journal entry data sets that are based on multiple organizations. Our results confirmed that their techniques offered a comprehensive and systematic way of applying digital analysis on journal entries in a new setting. Our analysis also found that researchers should not rely solely on Benford’s Law during digital analysis because of potential false alarms.

Keywords: fraud; journal entries; data mining; digital analysis; Benford’s Law

Suggested Citation:

Seow, Poh-Sun and Pan, Gary and Suwardy, Themin, Data Mining Journal Entries for Fraud Detection: A Replication of Debreceny and Gray’s (2010) Techniques (2016). Journal of Forensics and Investigative Accounting, Vol. 8(3) July-December 2016: 501-514, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2728163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
ACFE report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2014
Crossref
W Albrecht , M Romney
Red flagging management fraud: a validation
Advances in Accounting , issue 3 , p. 323 - 333 Posted: 1986
S Asare , Wright , A
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and programme planning tools in fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Bell , J Carcello
Research Notes, a decision aid for assessing the likelihood of fraudulent financial reporting
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 175 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,672
RANK
315,603
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies