Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Bayesian Partial Identification Approach to Inferring the Prevalance of Accounting Misconduct

Hahn, P. Richard, Jared S. Murray, and Ioanna Manolopoulou. "A Bayesian partial identification approach to inferring the prevalence of accounting misconduct." Journal of the American Statistical Association (2016): 1-37, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2016

P. Richard Hahn

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences

Jared Murray

University of Texas at Austin - Red McCombs School of Business

Ioanna Manolopoulou

University College London - Department of Statistical Science

Date Written: February 8, 2016

Abstract

This paper describes the use of flexible Bayesian regression models for estimating a partially identified probability function. Our approach permits efficient sensitivity analysis concerning the posterior impact of priors on the partially identified component of the regression model. The new methodology is illustrated on an important problem where only partially observed data are available – inferring the prevalence of accounting misconduct among publicly traded U.S. businesses.

Keywords: Bayesian inference, nonlinear regression, partial identification, sampling bias, sensitivity analysis, set identification

Suggested Citation:

Hahn, P. Richard and Murray, Jared and Manolopoulou, Ioanna, A Bayesian Partial Identification Approach to Inferring the Prevalance of Accounting Misconduct (February 8, 2016). Hahn, P. Richard, Jared S. Murray, and Ioanna Manolopoulou. "A Bayesian partial identification approach to inferring the prevalence of accounting misconduct." Journal of the American Statistical Association (2016): 1-37, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2729636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J Aldrich
How likelihood and identification went Bayesian
International Statistical Review , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 98 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Chan , J Tobias
Priors and posterior computation in linear endogenous variable models with imperfect instruments
Journal of Applied Econometrics Posted: 2014
Crossref
H Chipman , E George , R Mcculloch
Bayesian CART model search
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 93 , issue 443 , p. 935 - 948 Posted: 1998
Crossref
H Chipman , E George , R Mcculloch
BART: Bayesian additive regression trees
The Annals of Applied Statistics , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 266 - 298 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
John Kevin Ashton , Tim Burnett , Ivan Diaz-Rainey , Peter L. Ormosi
Has the Financial Regulatory Environment Improved in the UK? A Capture-Recapture Approach to Estimate Detection and Deterrence
50 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2018 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,332
RANK
369,949
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies