Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Perception of Red Flag: Indian Evidence

Mangala, D. & Kumari, P. (2016). Auditors’ Perception of Red Flags: Indian Evidence. In Usha Arora, Deepa Mangala & Ubba Savita (Eds.), Management Mosaic Traversing Across Assorted Research Arena (pp. 97-111). India: Wisdom Publication.

18 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2016 Last revised: 10 Mar 2016

Deepa Mangala

Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology - Haryana School of Business

Pooja Kumari

Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology - Haryana School of Business

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Incessantly increasing fraud is a matter of concern for regulators, business community as well as investors. Red flag is a tool against corporate fraud and a new area to be focused by practitioners and researchers. The present study aims to investigate accounting practitioner’s awareness about the concept of red flag in India. Further, it aims to explore their perception about effectiveness of red flag as a potential fraud detection and prevention instrument. Findings reveal that practitioners are aware about red flag. Moreover, they consider it as an effective tool in fraud detection and prevention. Fraud triangle categorises red flags into three parts that induce a person to commit fraud, namely, ‘pressure’, ‘rationalisation’ and ‘opportunity’. Rationalisation has been judged as most important category of red flags followed by opportunity and pressure in line. A significant correlation was found among awareness level and their perception about effectiveness of red flag in fraud detection and prevention.

Keywords: Corporate fraud, Auditor, Red flag, Fraud triangle

Suggested Citation:

Mangala, Deepa and Kumari, Pooja, Auditors’ Perception of Red Flag: Indian Evidence (2016). Mangala, D. & Kumari, P. (2016). Auditors’ Perception of Red Flags: Indian Evidence. In Usha Arora, Deepa Mangala & Ubba Savita (Eds.), Management Mosaic Traversing Across Assorted Research Arena (pp. 97-111). India: Wisdom Publication., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739691
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
W S Albrecht , C O Albrecht , C C Albrecht , M F Zimbelman
Fraud Examination Posted: 2012
SAS 99: Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit Posted: 2002-07-20
B A Apostolou , J M Hassell , G E Sumners
The relative importance of management fruad risk factors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 13 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2001
Crossref
B Apostolou , J M Hassell
An empirical examination of the sensitivity of yje analytic hierarchy process to departures from recommanded consistencies ratios
Mathematical and Computer Modelling , volume 17 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 163 - 170 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,721
RANK
245,414
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies