Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Field Experiment Examining Audit Subordinates' Knowledge and a Partner-Led Intervention in Fraud Brainstorming

61 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2016 Last revised: 19 Aug 2018

Sean A. Dennis

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: March 3, 2016

Abstract

In a field experiment, we leverage differences in audit subordinates’ job-relevant knowledge about clients, fraud brainstorming objectives, and “normal” audit partner leadership to explore whether and how knowledge moderates the effect of a partner-led intervention on brainstorming processes and outcomes. Our research design allows us to examine how differences in subordinate knowledge (between seniors and managers) influence auditors’ judgment processes on actual audit engagements, thereby facilitating uniquely realistic inferences about the conditions under which prompt-based interventions influence brainstorming. We develop and test a theoretical model that articulates an indirect effect of quality-differentiated partner leadership on brainstorming outcomes through changes in subordinates’ mental representations of fraud risk, conditional on subordinate knowledge. We manipulate partner leadership in brainstorming sessions for actual audit engagements and induce quality-differentiated leadership in our treatment group. We measure changes in mental representations using retrospective recalls of targeted professional skepticism, the number of new fraud risks identified, and changes in fraud risk assessments as a result of brainstorming. We predict and find an effect of quality-differentiated partner leadership on changes in the mental representations of seniors, but not managers. We also predict and find an indirect effect on fraud risk response outcomes (i.e., planned procedures) through changes in mental representations of seniors, but not managers. Both effects are stronger for seniors than managers. Our findings suggest knowledge differences as an explanatory factor that can guide the interpretation of, and potentially reconcile, prior mixed findings regarding incremental benefits of interventions in teams that are already brainstorming interactively.

Keywords: Audit planning, field experiment, fraud brainstorming, professional skepticism

JEL Classification: M4, K2

Suggested Citation:

Dennis, Sean A. and Zehms, Karla M., A Field Experiment Examining Audit Subordinates' Knowledge and a Partner-Led Intervention in Fraud Brainstorming (March 3, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2741873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2741873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
J Alba , L Hasher
Is memory schematic?
Psychological Bulletin , volume 93 , p. 203 - 231 Posted: 1983
Crossref
AICPA). 2015a. Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. AU-C Section 240
Understanding the Entity and Its environment and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement. AU-C Section 315 Posted: 2015
S K Asare , A M Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and audit program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,718
RANK
223,562
3 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies