Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT Fraud Mutation, Part 2: CITIBank as a Transition

81 Tax Notes International 971 (March 14, 2016)

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 16-12

8 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2016

Richard Thompson Ainsworth

NYU - Graduate Tax Program; Boston University - School of Law

Date Written: March 14, 2016

Abstract

The first part of this paper considered traditional MTIC fraud (push MTIC) in CO2 permits. The fraud in that case (Dosanjh) was swiftly put down. The traditional design of the fraud did not mean it was “garden variety.”

Sweeping arrests in the early morning hours of August 19, 2009, followed by year-long imprisonment without bail for seven individuals suggest concern at the highest levels. The UK zero-rated CO2 permits on August 1, 2009 because of the Dosanjh case.

However, with Dosanjh out of commission who would step up and be the new supplier of CO2 permits if the “blue chip” companies that Dosanjh sold to were interested in continuing to purchase from fraudsters? Based on the size of its purchases from Dosanjh, CITIBank was the natural target for HMRC’s follow-up surveillance. The CITIBank case explores thee suppliers.

This part argues that the CITIBank is transitional. We are moving from Dosanhj’s push-type (or externally controlled) MTIC fraud, to a sustained pull-type (or economically controlled) MTIC fraud. The first of these mature pull-type frauds is considered in the final part of this paper, the Deutsche Bank case. The Deutsche Bank case cannot be fully understood without grasping what occurred in the CITIBank transition.

Keywords: VAT, MTIC fraud, CO2 permits, Dosanjh v HMRC, CITIBank v HMRC, Deutsche Bank, Pull-type MTIC, Push-type MTIC

JEL Classification: K14, K33, K39

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Richard Thompson, VAT Fraud Mutation, Part 2: CITIBank as a Transition (March 14, 2016). 81 Tax Notes International 971 (March 14, 2016), Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 16-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2770079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,943
RANK
371,780
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public International Law: Courts & Adjudication eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies