Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Fraud in Chinese Listed Company Balance Sheets

31 Pages Posted: 12 May 2016

Yi Wei

Hubei University - School of Business

Jianguo Chen

Massey University - School of Economics and Finance

Carolyn G. Wirth

Massey University - School of Economics and Finance

Date Written: April 1, 2016

Abstract

This study investigates the links between accounting values in Chinese listed companies’ balance sheets and the exposure of their fraudulent activities. Every balance sheet account is proposed to be a potential vehicle to manipulate financial statements. Other receivables, inventories, prepaid expenses, employee benefits payables and long-term payables are important indicators of fraudulent financial statements. These results confirm that asset account manipulation is frequently carried out and cast doubt on earlier conclusions by researchers that inflation of liabilities is the most common source of financial statement manipulation. Prior practices of solely scaling balance sheet values by assets are revealed to produce spurious relationships, while scaling by both assets and sales effectively detects fraudulent financial statements and provides a useful fraud prediction tool for Chinese auditors, regulators and investors.

Keywords: Fraudulent statements, Accounting ratios, China

JEL Classification: G30, G31

Suggested Citation:

Wei, Yi and Chen, Jianguo and Wirth, Carolyn G., Detecting Fraud in Chinese Listed Company Balance Sheets (April 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2777949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals*
Journal of law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Aharony , C.-W J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M S Baucus , J P Near
Can illegal corporate behavior be predicted? An event history analysis
Academy of Management Journal , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 36 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
Accounting Review , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,398
RANK
225,902
3 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies