Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Scientific Approach to Fighting Money Laundry: Forensic Accounts

Law and Social Inquiry, Forthcoming

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

22 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2016 Last revised: 24 Feb 2021

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: May 22, 2016

Abstract

The urban dictionary (online) defines “magic bullet” as a term used to describe a universal solution a person uses for any problem they encounter” while the Merriam-Webster dictionary describes it as “something providing an effective solution to a difficult or previously unsolvable problem”. Furthermore, it can be described as the perfect drug to cure an ailment with no hazard of side effects. The term was first used in this manner by the German scientist, Paul Ehrlich to describe antibody and, later, the drug Salvarsan that he created to treat syphilis. In general, it refers to a magic answer to any vexing problem.

The use of forensic science techniques has traditionally been concentrated on more serious crimes such as rape and homicide. Increasingly, however, forensic techniques are being used routinely to aid the investigation of volume crimes such as money laundry, financial crimes, white collar crimes, burglary and vehicle crime.

This paper examines Forensic science techniques in developing Forensic accounts as it is. The paper explains the meaning, the purpose, the uses, the importance and the challenges of forensic accounting. The paper further enumerates skills needed for forensic accountants as well as factors impacting the growth of the demand of forensic accounting. Finally, the paper develops an overview of the contribution of forensic science to criminal investigations.

Keywords: Forensics, Accounts, Venality, Racketing, Magic bullet

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, A Scientific Approach to Fighting Money Laundry: Forensic Accounts (May 22, 2016). Law and Social Inquiry, Forthcoming, Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2783155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
W S Albrecht
Identifying fraudulent financial transactions: A framework for detecting financial statementfraud Posted: 2005
History of forensic science Posted: 2007
R J Allen
The future of evidence law
Paper delivered at: 3 rd International Conference on Evidence Law and Forensic Science , p. 16 - 17 Posted: 2011-07
FVS Practice Aid 10-1: Serving as an Expert Witness orConsultant Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,146
RANK
298,527
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies