Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Transparency of Information Reduce Embezzlement? Experimental Evidence from Tanzania

IZA Discussion Paper No. 9925

50 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2016 Last revised: 10 May 2025

Salvatore Falco

University of Geneva

Brice Magdalou

Université Montpellier I

David Masclet

Université de Rennes I; M@rsouin

Marie Claire Villeval

GATE - CNRS; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Marc Willinger

LAMETA, University of Montpellier 1

Abstract

Embezzlement is a major concern in various settings. By means of a sequential modified dictator game, we investigate theoretically and experimentally whether making information more transparent and reducing the number of intermediaries in transfer chains can reduce embezzlement and improve the recipients' welfare. Consistent with reference-dependent preferences in terms of moral ideal, we show that the impact of transparency is conditional on the length of the transfer chain and on the position of the intermediaries in the chain. Its direct effect on image encourages honesty. Its indirect effect via expectations plays in the opposite direction, motivating individuals to embezzle more when they expect that the following intermediary will embezzle less. Senders react positively to a reduction of the length of the chain but negatively to transparency.

Keywords: embezzlement, corruption, dishonesty, transparency, experiment

JEL Classification: C91, D83

Suggested Citation:

Falco, Salvatore and Magdalou, Brice and Masclet, David and Villeval, Marie Claire and Willinger, Marc, Can Transparency of Information Reduce Embezzlement? Experimental Evidence from Tanzania. IZA Discussion Paper No. 9925, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2786009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
K Abbink , B Irlenbusch , E Renner
An Experimental Bribery Game
Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 428 - 454 Posted: 2002
K Abbink , M Ellmann
The donor problem: an experimental analysis of beneficiary empowerment
Journal of Development Studies , volume 46 , issue 8 , p. 1327 - 1344 Posted: 2010
K Abbink , D Serra , D Serra , L Wantchekon
Anti-corruption policies: Lessons from the lab
New advances in experimental research on corruption , volume 15 Posted: 2012
J Abeler , A Becker , A Falk
Representative evidence on lying costs
Journal of Public Economics , volume 113 , p. 96 - 104 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
805
RANK
897,300
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies