Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Approaches to Transfer Pricing Compliance and Enforcement

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Volume 8, Issue 3, 2016

47 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2016 Last revised: 5 Feb 2020

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Date Written: May 22, 2016

Abstract

Finding common ground between corporate tax compliance and enforcement appears difficult and expensive, judging by the current inventory of almost $200 billion in proposed IRS transfer pricing tax adjustments, and projections of as much as $100 billion or more in annual U.S. federal corporate tax underpayments via international tax and transfer pricing transactions. Emerging techniques in forensic accounting and economics, together with data analytics may hold a key to bridging this “compliance-enforcement” or C-E gap. These new capabilities can benefit both enforcement and compliance in the same way that advances in forensic investigative technology revolutionized the practice of law enforcement, by improving the certainty and consistency of both examination and compliance efforts, reducing the number of IRS audits of compliant taxpayers, shortening the intensity and duration of IRS examinations and improving the efficiency of scarce taxpayer and tax authority resources. These advances are also consistent with recent OECD guidance on base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS), which places more emphasis on economic reliability versus rote procedural compliance. Two forensic models are illustrated: a model of risk and return analytics for transfer pricing risk assessment, and a value chain contribution analysis for use in cost sharing and profit split arrangements. Forensic technology and approaches could reduce controversy between taxpayers and the IRS regarding what constitutes acceptable transfer prices, and provide the basis for more efficient use of both IRS and taxpayer resources.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Auditing, Forensic Economics, Tax Compliance and Enforcement

JEL Classification: F23, H26, H32, H83, K34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L, Forensic Approaches to Transfer Pricing Compliance and Enforcement (May 22, 2016). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Volume 8, Issue 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2786779
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Foreign Indefinitely Reinvested Earnings: Balances Held by The Russell 1000 -A 7 Year (Report) Posted: 2015-04-20
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Kimberly A. Clausing , Michael C. Durst
Allocating Business Profits for Tax Purposes: A Proposal to Adopt a Formulary Profit Split
U of Michigan Law & Economics, Olin Working Paper No. 09-003, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 138 Pages: 67 Posted: 17 Dec 2008 Last revised: 1 Feb 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Ilan Benshalom
Formulary Apportionment: Myths and Prospects - Promoting Better International Tax Policy and Utilizing the Misunderstood and Under-Theorized Formulary Alternative
U of Michigan Law & Econ, Empirical Legal Studies Center Paper No. 10-029, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 221 Pages: 30 Posted: 16 Oct 2010 Last revised: 14 Apr 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yariv Brauner
Cost Sharing and the Acrobatics of Arm's Length Taxation Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Stephen L Curtis , Yaron Lahav
Forensic Approaches to Transfer Pricing Enforcement Could Restore Billions in Lost U.S. Federal and State Tax Losses: A Case Study Approach
Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Volume 12: Issue 2, July–December 2020, · 32 Pages · Posted: 6 Mar 2020 · Last revised: 13 May 2021 · Downloads: 147
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,425
RANK
161,184
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies