Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting in Market Expansion: Google and the Chinese Market

38 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2016

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: June 4, 2016

Abstract

The current reflection is about a new roadmap that the American giant, Google, Inc must follow to reenter successfully the Chinese market by using tools like forensic accounting, audit techniques and other relevant initiatives related to better transparency of business transactions. In order to achieve this, the piece develops the history between Google Inc, and China, what went wrong, and other issues related to the breakdown.

On January 25, 2006, the American company Google, Inc. announced that it would provide access to the Internet in China through a new portal named Google.cn. At the same time, Google executives agreed to censor all search results which included content considered objectionable by the Chinese government. With a population of 1.3 billion and a growing economy, China represents an enormously important market for the future of U.S. companies. The number of Internet users in the country has grown substantially over the past few years, and is currently estimated to have reached 111 million regular users. China, in fact, is now ranked as the second largest Internet market in the world. China's economy has grown consistently over the last 30 years at unprecedented rates, which has made it one of the most sought-after venues for investment by multinational corporations. With this, more Chinese have the means to purchase Internet access and devices. At the same time, Google has grown into one of the largest multinational companies in the world, and entered China in the early part of 21st century seeking to continue its growth. Rather than finding success, Google faced an array of problems. In fact, the Chinese government, however, offers all Internet search providers a difficult choice: either censor results or do not do business in China.

With the introduction of Google.cn, Chinese Internet users could access the same search engine with a speed similar to that of Google.com in the United States. Instead of the Chinese government filtering search results, Google now routes the inquiry through their own servers and removes any officially banned content. Search results are typically returned within only a fraction of a second. Although Chinese users would have previously received the same limited results, Google had no role in the actual censorship of information until the debut of Google.cn.

Keywords: Market, Expansion, Chinese, Google, Growth, communism, Free market, African

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Forensic Accounting in Market Expansion: Google and the Chinese Market (June 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2790185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2790185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,065
RANK
310,156
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Asian Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies