Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regional Crime Rates and Corporate Misreporting

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2016 Last revised: 6 Feb 2019

Hyungjin Cho

Inha University - College of Business Administration

Sera Choi

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Woo-Jong Lee

Seoul National University

Seunghee Yang

Seoul National University

Date Written: February 5, 2019

Abstract

Prior studies document that social capital influences managers’ propensity to seek private rents. We extend this line of literature by linking regional crime rates, an indicator of extreme breakdown of social capital, to corporate reporting behaviours such as earnings management and tax avoidance. Utilizing borough-level crime rates in London, we show that firms headquartered in boroughs with higher crime rates are more likely to engage in earnings management. We also find that firms in such boroughs exhibit lower levels of effective tax rates, evidencing aggressive tax avoidance. Our findings suggest that social capital plays a significant role in shaping corporate reporting.

Keywords: crime rates, social capital, financial reporting quality, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: A13, M41, H2

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Hyungjin and Choi, Sera and Lee, Woo-Jong and Yang, Seunghee, Regional Crime Rates and Corporate Misreporting (February 5, 2019). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2791512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2791512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
L De Simone
Does a common set of accounting standards affect tax-motivated income shifting for multinational firms?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , p. 145 - 165 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Draca , S Machin
Crime and economic incentives
Annual Review of Economics , volume 7 , p. 389 - 408 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Draca , S Machin , R Witt
Panic on the streets of London: Police, crime, and the July 2005 terror attacks , volume 101 , p. 2157 - 2181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Draca , T Koutmeridis , S Machin
The changing returns to crime: Do criminals respond to prices?
Review of Economic Studies , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
So Young Lee , José M. Díaz-Puente , Susana Martin
Global Encyclopedia of Public Administration, Public Policy, and Governance
, p. 1 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Joanna Golden , Mark J. Kohlbeck
Financial Reporting Consequences of CEOs’ Early-life Exposure to Disasters and Violent Crime
45 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2020 · Downloads: 210
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,429
RANK
328,615
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies