Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Corporate Fraud

FRB of Cleveland Working Paper No. 16-13

89 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016

Jonathan Black

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Mattias Nilsson

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Roberto Pinheiro

Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland

Maximiliano Silva

Federal University of ABC

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

We develop and test a model linking the duration of financial fraud to information produced by auditors and analysts and efforts by managers to conceal the fraud. Our empirical results suggest fraud termination is more likely in the quarter following the release of audited financial statements, especially when reports contain explanatory language, indicating auditors’ observable signals reduce fraud duration. Analyst attention increases the likelihood of fraud termination, but the marginal effect beyond the first analyst is negative, possibly due to free riding and herding behavior impairing analysts’ ability to illuminate misconduct. Finally, evidence suggests managerial concealment significantly increases fraud duration.

Keywords: fraud duration, information production, fraud effort, auditor reports, hazard models

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K22, K42, L51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Black, Jonathan and Nilsson, Mattias and Pinheiro, Roberto and Silva, Maximiliano, Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Corporate Fraud (June 1, 2016). FRB of Cleveland Working Paper No. 16-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2795237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Mark S Beasley , Joseph V Carcello , Hermanson Dana , R
Fraudulent Financial Reporting: 1998-2007 An Analysis of U Posted: 2010
Messod Daniel Beneish , Charles M.C. Lee , D. Craig Nichols
Fraud Detection and Expected Returns
Pages: 53 Posted: 5 Feb 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert M Bowen , Andrew C Call , Rajgopal Shiva
Whistle-Blowing: Target Firm Characteristics and Economic Consequences. The Accounting Review v , volume 85 , p. 1239 - 1271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Stephen J Choi , A C Pritchard , Adam C , Wiechman , Anat Carmy
Scandal Enforcement at the SEC: The Arc of the Option Backdating Investigations
American Law and Economics Review , issue 2 , p. 542 - 577 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,741
RANK
132,890
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies