Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detection Techniques of Fraud in Accounting

European Journal of Economics and Business Studies, Volume 2, Nr. 1, May-August 2015

University of Prishtina Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2796561

6 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2016 Last revised: 20 Jun 2016

Arben Sahiti

University of Kadri Zeka, Faculty of Economics

Mejdi Bektashi

University of Prishtina - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 31, 2015

Abstract

The problem relating with the accounting fraud is that it has not stopped despite the numerous changes that have been made in legislation and strict controls by the internal and external auditors. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to assess strategies and techniques available to use for accounting fraud detection. Also, this paper aims to assess the impact of fraud, and the role of auditors and the media in combating this phenomenon. This research will be carried out using secondary data because it fits better the aim and purpose of the research. Data used derived from a range of sources that have a very high degree of credibility and reliability, and which have been carefully reviewed by other relevant bodies for accuracy and quality purposes. This includes databases and various publications. In addition, the data also stem from individual and group publications made by renowned scientific researchers who have solid expertise in their field of accounting. Narrative analysis is used to analyze the data in this paper. This research will conclude that techniques used for the detection of fraud in accounting and various strategies can positively influence the treatment of this phenomenon due to the alarm buzzer for possible fraud. However, vigilance is necessarily required to add all parties involved in the corporation through the use of different anti-fraud programs to stimulate the accountability of the management executives and employees through informants to fight this destructive phenomenon.

Keywords: fraud, technique, auditors, scandals, control, financial statements, auditing

Suggested Citation:

Sahiti, Arben and Bektashi, Mejdi, Detection Techniques of Fraud in Accounting (May 31, 2015). European Journal of Economics and Business Studies, Volume 2, Nr. 1, May-August 2015, University of Prishtina Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2796561, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2796561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Auditing Standards Board, Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
AICPA Posted: 2002
G K Agarwal , Y Medury
Internal Auditor as Accounting Fraud Buster'' The IUP journal of accounting research & audit practices , volume 13 , p. 7 - 13 Posted: 2014
M Epstein , M Geiger
Investor Views of Audit Assurance: Recent Evidence of the Expectation Gap
Journal of Accountancy , volume 178 , issue 5 , p. 60 - 66 Posted: 1994
E M Fich , A Shivdasani
Financial fraud, director reputation, and shareholder wealth
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 86 , p. 306 - 336 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
587
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,919
RANK
106,095
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies