Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Manipulation Toolkit: The Failure of Doral Financial Corporation

Applied Economics, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2016 Last revised: 24 Apr 2017

Ahmed Elnahas

The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Pankaj K. Jain

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Thomas H. McInish

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Date Written: June 18, 2016

Abstract

TThe 2015 bankruptcy of Doral Financial Corporation, once “the best” U.S. bank according to U.S. Banker, is the largest since April 2010. The bankruptcy concludes years of management manipulation and efforts to recover. SEC investigation revealed fraud related to Doral’s valuation of interest only strips (IOs). We show that Doral management’s misconduct also includes reckless hiring, over investing, insiders trading, and opportunistic stock splits. Investigating the full range of Doral management’s misconduct reveals new tactics that managers use to pool with good firms and aids our understanding of the economic impact of managerial misconduct.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Fraud, Restatement, Bankruptcy

JEL Classification: G14, G34, G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Elnahas, Ahmed and Jain, Pankaj K. and McInish, Thomas H., Exploring the Manipulation Toolkit: The Failure of Doral Financial Corporation (June 18, 2016). Applied Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800789 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2800789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
William R Baber , M Patricia , James A Fairfield , Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
William R Baber , N Surya , Chen Janakiraman , S Kang
Investment opportunities and the structure of executive compensation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , p. 297 - 318 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Bartov Eli
The timing of asset sales and earnings manipulation
Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 840 - 855 Posted: 1993
Bartov Eli , Partha Mohanram
Private information, earnings manipulations, and executive stock-option exercises
Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 889 - 920 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
572,087
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies