Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Impact of an Evidentiary Privilege Protecting Corporate Whistleblowers on Intention to Report Wrongdoing

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 2, 2016

46 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2016 Last revised: 26 Jul 2016

Blaise Sonnier

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs - College of Business

Walfried M. Lassar

Florida International University (FIU)

Edie Greene

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs

Date Written: July 10, 2016

Abstract

The goals of an effective whistleblowing system are to encourage whistleblowing as a fraud detection tool and to deter wrongdoing by increasing a wrongdoer’s risk of detection. Public companies are mandated to provide internal, confidential hotlines through which employees can report fraudulent or illegal activities, though current law does not protect the disclosure of the whistleblower’s identity in subsequent judicial or administrative proceedings. Requiring a whistleblower to reveal his or her identity carries both psychological and financial risks, and reduces the likelihood of reporting. Yet obtaining a whistleblower’s name enables employers to more thoroughly investigate claims of wrongdoing and enact reforms. The present study used experimental methodology to assess the impact of an evidentiary privilege prohibiting disclosure of the whistleblower’s identity in exchange for the whistleblower’s name on the personal cost of reporting and reporting likelihood. Results showed that the likelihood of reporting was significantly increased and the perceived personal cost was significantly decreased when a whistleblower required to provide his or her name to a hotline was afforded an evidentiary privilege. The study informs policymakers about the impact that an evidentiary privilege protecting whistleblowers would have on the likelihood of reporting and sets the stage for further exploration of the feasibility of such an evidentiary privilege being implemented.

Keywords: employee hotline, reporting intentions, whistleblow, whistleblowing, evidentiary privilege

Suggested Citation:

Sonnier, Blaise and Lassar, Walfried M. and Greene, Edie, An Examination of the Impact of an Evidentiary Privilege Protecting Corporate Whistleblowers on Intention to Report Wrongdoing (July 10, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
American Jurisprudence
Accountants, 2 nd ed , volume 1 Posted: 2004
Crossref
American Jurisprudence
Witnesses, 2 nd ed , volume 81 Posted: 2004
Inc Auditconcerns
Comment letter on standards relating to listed company audit committees Posted: 2003-02-14
S Ayers , S E Kaplan
Wrongdoing by consultants: An examination of employees' reporting intention
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 137 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Ashiqullah Pardisi
Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy: An Annotated Bibliography 2007-2022
124 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashiqullah Pardisi
Taxation, Ethics & Public Policy: An Annotated Bibliography 1998-2022
76 Pages · Posted: 25 May 2023 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashiqullah Pardisi
Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy: An Annotated Bibliography 2003-2022
142 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 43
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashiqullah Pardisi
Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy: An Annotated Bibliography 1998-2022
187 Pages · Posted: 12 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 90
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,148
RANK
180,781
7 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies