Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountants’ Capability Requirements for Fraud Prevention and Detection in Nigeria

International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, Vol. 6 (S4), 1-10, July 2016

15 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2016

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Kalsom Salleh

Kolej Poly-Tech Mara

Adebola Babatunde

Afe Babalola University

Date Written: July 11, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigated the capability requirements as represented by Knowledge (KR) and Skills (SR) requirements and competence requirement as represented by Fraud risk assessment (FRA) of a forensic accountant and auditor in the Nigerian public sector. In addition, this study explored whether the forensic accountant possesses higher levels of SR, KR and FRA requirements than the auditor in an evolving area of fraud prevention, detection and response. The study embraced positivist paradigm, adopted cross-sectional design and a survey method. Of the 400 questionnaires distributed, 363 questionnaires were returned and out of which 316 questionnaires were retained for further analysis. The variables are operationalized with a total of 29 observable items, which included demography information. The study results confirmed the significant positive relationship between Skill and Knowledge on Fraud Risk Assessment. Furthermore, the findings showed that the forensic accountant has significantly higher levels of Knowledge, Skill and Fraud Risk Assessment than auditor regarding issues of fraud prevention, detection and response. The implication of this study might result in the overall reduction of corruption and fraud in the public sector, enhancement of institutional, regulatory, ethical and legal framework, and create awareness amongst the accounting and auditing systems management in Nigeria especially and similar developing nations in general. The results add value to the theory, method and practice on fraud prevention, detection, and response by introducing the empirical examination of KR, SR, and FRA in a workplace.

Keywords: forensic accounting, auditing, capability requirement, task performance, fraud prevention and detection, government policy and regulation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah and Salleh, Kalsom and Babatunde, Adebola, Accountants’ Capability Requirements for Fraud Prevention and Detection in Nigeria (July 11, 2016). International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, Vol. 6 (S4), 1-10, July 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Acfe
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse. The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2008
Acfe
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse. The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2010
Aicpa
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Statement of Auditing Standard (SAS) No. 82: Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit Posted: 1997
Aicpa
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit (AICPA, Professional Standards , volume 1 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
498
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,564
RANK
130,317
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies