Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Wages of Dishonesty: The Supply of Cheating under High-Powered Incentives

Balasubramanian, Parasuram, Victor M. Bennett, and Lamar Pierce. "The wages of dishonesty: The supply of cheating under high-powered incentives." Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 137 (2017): 428-444.

47 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2016 Last revised: 5 Aug 2020

Parasuram Balasubramanian

Washington University in St. Louis

Victor Manuel Bennett

University of Utah

Lamar Pierce

Washington University, Saint Louis - John M. Olin School of Business

Date Written: July 12, 2016

Abstract

We use a novel design to identify how dishonesty changes through a broad reward range that, at the high end, exceeds participants’ average daily wages. Using a sample of online Indian workers who earn bonuses based on six simultaneous coin flips, we show that the relationship between dishonesty and financial rewards depends on the incentive range. We find two novel effects as incentives exceed those used in prior research. First, dishonesty increases and reaches its maximum as rewards increase from $0.50 to $3 per reported head and as earnings reach $15, indicating that rewards can indeed motivate more cheating when large enough. More importantly, we show that dishonesty declines at the highest reward levels (up to $5 per head) as individuals appear to engage in lower magnitudes of dishonesty. We explain how our results could be explained by a reference-dependent utility with internal costs of dishonesty that are convex in the magnitude of the lie, and show survey and simulation-based evidence that support this explanation.

Keywords: Incentives, Dishonesty, Cheating, Ethics, Reference Points, Prospect Theory

Suggested Citation:

Balasubramanian, Parasuram and Bennett, Victor Manuel and Pierce, Lamar, The Wages of Dishonesty: The Supply of Cheating under High-Powered Incentives (July 12, 2016). Balasubramanian, Parasuram, Victor M. Bennett, and Lamar Pierce. "The wages of dishonesty: The supply of cheating under high-powered incentives." Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 137 (2017): 428-444., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2808606 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2808606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
J Abeler , A Falk , L Goette , D Huffman
Reference points and effort provision
The American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 2 , p. 470 - 492 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Abeler , A Becker , A Falk
Representative evidence on lying costs
Journal of Public Economics , volume 113 , p. 96 - 104 Posted: 2014
Crossref
N Barberis
Thirty years of prospect theory in economics: A review and assessment
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 173 - 196 Posted: 2013
Crossref
V M Bennett , L Pierce , J A Snyder , M W Toffel
Customer-driven misconduct: How competition corrupts business practices
Management Science , volume 59 , issue 8 , p. 1725 - 1742 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,738
RANK
405,251
3 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Cognition & Culture: Culture, Communication, Design, Ethics, Morality, Religion, Rhetoric, & Semiotics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies