Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capability Component of Fraud and Fraud Prevention in the Saudi Arabian Banking Sector

International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, Vol. 6 (S4), Pp. 68-71, Forthcoming

7 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2016

Rayaan Baz

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Rose Shamsiah Samsudin

Universiti Utara Malaysia, College of Business, School of Accountancy

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: July 5, 2016

Abstract

Fraud is a fundamental problem with every financial institution in the world, and Saudi Arabian banking sector is not immune to this malaise. Advances in technology that have led to the development of electronic banking have created new challenges for preventing fraud in the banking sector. This study develops a conceptual framework that can be used by banks in Saudi Arabia to prevent fraud in light of the capabilities of bank staff to perpetuate fraud. The respondents of this study are personnel in different managerial level in the Saudi Arabian banking sector. However, the limitation of the study is that it targets banking personnel in Saudi Arabia only. As an expectation, there will be a positive relationship between capability component of fraud and bank-related fraud prevention in the Saudi Arabian banking sector.

Keywords: Fraud, Bank Related Fraud Prevention, Capability Component, Saudi Arabia

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M43, M49

Suggested Citation:

Baz, Rayaan and Samsudin, Rose Shamsiah and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib and Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson, Capability Component of Fraud and Fraud Prevention in the Saudi Arabian Banking Sector (July 5, 2016). International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, Vol. 6 (S4), Pp. 68-71, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2810745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Aicpa
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 99: Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 2002
W S Albrecht
Employee Fraud, Internal Auditor Posted: 1996-10
A Alghamdi , I Flechais , M Jirotka
Security Practices for Households Bank Customers in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Posted: 2015
B Arora , A Khanna
A study to investigate the reasons for bank frauds and the implementation of preventive security controls in Indian banking industry
International Journal of Business Science and Applied Management , volume 4 , p. 2 - 21 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Lewis Barnes
Does Managing Occupational Fraud Add Value?
61 Pages · Posted: 10 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 133
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
580
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,572
RANK
107,760
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Monetary Economics: Financial System & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies