Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Earnings Management in Sales

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 54, No. 5, 2016

34 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2016 Last revised: 16 Dec 2019

Michael Ahearne

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Jeffrey Boichuk

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Craig J. Chapman

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Thomas J. Steenburgh

University of Virginia - Darden Graduate School of Business

Date Written: October 21, 2016

Abstract

We surveyed 1,638 sales executives across 40 countries regarding their companies’ likelihood of asking sales to perform real earnings management (REM) actions when earnings pressure exists. Using this information, which we refer to as companies’ REM propensities, we study how company characteristics and environmental conditions relate to the responses received. The use of cash-ﬂow incentives for sales personnel and the distribution of interfunctional power in favor of ﬁnance rather than sales are both associated with companies’ REM propensities. In addition, we show that sales executives preemptively change their behaviors in anticipation of top management’s REM requests. Sales executives working for public companies and companies in the United States reported higher levels of REM propensity. The data also support an association between REM propensity and ﬁnance–sales conﬂict. These ﬁndings and others are compared and contrasted with existing empirical and survey-based research on REM throughout the paper.

Keywords: ﬁnancial accounting, disclosure, incentives, transparency, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Ahearne, Michael and Boichuk, Jeffrey and Chapman, Craig J. and Steenburgh, Thomas J., Real Earnings Management in Sales (October 21, 2016). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 54, No. 5, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2810356 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2810356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
reduce travel expenses for internal meetings? 2. . . . reduce entertainment expenses involving employees only? 3. . . . reduce travel expenses for customer meetings? 4. . . . reduce entertainment expenses involving customers? 5. . . . reduce discretionary marketing expenses? 6
lease or rent new assets instead of acquire them outright? Revenue-Management Propensity (scale endpoints: 1 = "very unlikely
. .
change shipping terms? 4. . . . change payment terms? 5. . . . change returns/allowance terms? 6. . . . increase end-of-period sales in exchange for a reduction in price? 7. . . . move business forward (i.e., from next quarter to this quarter)? 15 Since the lead-in statements for the expense-management propensity and revenuemanagement propensity questions are phrased passively, respondents' affirmative answers cannot be
.
pre-commit or pre-pay for discretionary marketing expenses
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
758
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,551
RANK
76,350
7 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies