Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Art of Managing Small Business - Interdeco - A Case Study

8 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2016

Krishnakumar Ramanathan

Dayananda Sagar College of Management & Information Technology; DAYANANADA SAGAR UNIVERSITY

Date Written: July 27, 2016

Abstract

This is a case study prepared on a live consulting project where the author was involved as a consultant. This case is a case of an entrepreneur who started his business and got immersed in the process wherein he forgot to put in place systems which could work. The problem for this entrepreneur was when his business grew up fast from a very small business to a big business in a short span of time. He was not able to manage the sudden growth in his business. The system he created resulted in embezzlement and he faced a financial crunch. The author (Consultant) intervened and created a system and put it in place which was a solution. every start up entrepreneur faces this problem as most of them are not able to sustain as they fail to generate revenues to keep them going.

Keywords: working capital, system

Suggested Citation:

Ramanathan, Krishnakumar and Ramanathan, Krishnakumar, The Art of Managing Small Business - Interdeco - A Case Study (July 27, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2814892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2814892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
What are your reactions to this situation? How would you react if you were in the position of Mr Shetty?
What is going-on here? What are your inferences from it?
What factors influenced the evolution of events? 4. Why did Mr. Shetty decide to have an informal method of reporting?
Do you think Mr Shetty could have avoided this situation by taking some proactive measures? Why did he fail to do so?
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
RANK
713,531
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies