Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securities Class Actions in the United States and Canada Against Chinese Companies and Their Auditors: An Empirical Investigation

53 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2016

Nancy Chun Feng

Suffolk University

Ross D. Fuerman

Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 25, 2016

Abstract

Chinese companies have accessed the public capital markets of the US and Canada more frequently in recent years. This paper provides for the first time empirical evidence documenting the characteristics of private securities class action lawsuits (filed in the US and Canada) against Chinese companies and their auditors.

Analysis of lawsuits worldwide shows that Chinese companies are positively associated with auditors being named defendants and experiencing a negative outcome (for example, related government enforcement actions and/or settlement payments to terminate class actions).

A group of companies from countries outside the US and Canada was compared to the Chinese companies. For the comparison group, the factors that were associated with auditors being named defendants and experiencing a negative outcome are consistent with those that have been found in prior auditor litigation research. Conversely, the Chinese companies are characterized by a different pattern of litigation. Among the traditional factors, only fraud is associated with auditor litigation. In addition, the use of a small CPA firm auditor with the local audit engagement team office physically located in the US or Canada (as opposed to the local audit engagement team office being physically located in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”)) is associated with auditor litigation. We find limited evidence that the use of a reverse merger to go public is positively associated with auditor litigation.

We analyzed the Chinese lawsuits’ settlements. Aggregate settlement amounts are positively associated with the occurrence of an auditor settlement and with the class period length. Auditor settlement amounts are positively associated with the use of a large CPA firm auditor with the local audit engagement team office physically located in the US or Canada (as opposed to the local audit engagement team office being physically located in the PRC), class period length, and fraud. These findings suggest that the amount of litigation settlements of large CPA firms with the local audit engagement team office physically located in the PRC may have been reduced by their refusal to provide audit documentation requested by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Keywords: China, securities class actions, auditor litigation, audit quality, reverse mergers

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Nancy Chun and Fuerman, Ross D., Securities Class Actions in the United States and Canada Against Chinese Companies and Their Auditors: An Empirical Investigation (July 25, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2814335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2814335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
P Brown , J Preiato , A Tarco
Measuring country differences in enforcement of accounting standards: An audit and enforcement proxy
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2014-01
Crossref
L Bulan , E Ryan , L Simmons
Securities Class Action Settlements-2013 Review and Analysis. Cornerstone Research Posted: 2014-03-27
J V Carcello , C W Hollingsworth , S A Mastrolia
The effect of PCAOB inspections on Big 4 audit quality
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 23 , p. 85 - 96 Posted: 2011-10
Crossref
Joseph V. Carcello , Brian Todd Carver , Clive Lennox , Terry L. Neal
When Bonding Fails: Audit Firm Oversight of US-Listed Chinese Companies
Pages: 58 Posted: 3 Apr 2014 Last revised: 4 Apr 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,163
RANK
576,053
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies