Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneish Model as Effective Complement to the Application of SAS No. 99 in the Conduct of Audit in Nigeria

Management and Administrative Sciences Review, Volume 2, Issue 6, pp. 640-655, Nov 2013

16 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2016

Dr. Ugochukwu Nwoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy, Students

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Azubuike Onuora Oraka

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: November 30, 2013

Abstract

This paper gives due consideration to determining the contribution made by SAS 99 towards improving the skills of Nigerian Auditors in the detection of fraud in Financial Statements of corporate organisations, while laying emphasis on the extent to which the Beneish Model could further strengthen Auditors likelihood to detecting such manipulations in the Financial Statements. The research was descriptively and historically designed. 100 respondents comprising Auditors, Accountants in the Industries and the Accounting Academics in Anambra and Enugu State were infinitely determined using the Topman’s formula. Data from secondary sources comprising Audited Annual Reports of the first five most capitalised manufacturing companies in Nigeria for the years 2002-2006 (in Cadbury, for model confirmatory test purpose) and 2006-2010 were used to complement this work. Inputs from the questionnaire distributed and the Annual Reports and Accounts, were analysed with the aid of SPSS software package using the Two way ANOVA statistical technique, and the Beneish Model. The analyses result showed that SAS 99 will significantly contributed to the deterrence and detection of fraud by Auditors in Nigeria, especially where complemented with the Beneish model. Thus, the Model should be introduced into the Nigeria Audit System as one of the prescribed analytical Audit techniques to aid External Auditors perform the relevant substantive tests where necessary so as to effectively curtail the rising incidence of fraud among corporate organisations in Nigeria.

Keywords: Annual Reports and Accounts, Audit Analytical Techniques, Beneish Model, Engagement Team, External Auditors, Financial Statements, Fraud Detection, Manufacturing Companies, SAS No. 99, Substantive Tests

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Nwoye, Dr. Ugochukwu and Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Oraka, Azubuike Onuora, Beneish Model as Effective Complement to the Application of SAS No. 99 in the Conduct of Audit in Nigeria (November 30, 2013). Management and Administrative Sciences Review, Volume 2, Issue 6, pp. 640-655, Nov 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2819436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
The Auditor's Responsibility to Detect and Report Errors and Irregularities
Statement on Auditing Standards Posted: 1988
M S Beasley , G J Jenkin
A Primer for Brainstorming Fraud Risks Posted: 2007-02-16
M D Beneish
The Detection of Earnings Manipulation
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 24 - 36 Posted: 1999
Crossref
T J Bishop , J T Wells
Breaking Tradition In The Auditing Profession Posted: 2010-02-16
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,079
RANK
201,467
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies