Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Carrot Without a Stick - The Effect of Monetary Rewards on Corporate Whistleblowing

45 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2016 Last revised: 10 Aug 2020

Benedikt Franke

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Henrik Moser

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; University of Mannheim - Graduate School of Economic and Social Sciences

Dirk Simons

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: August 1, 2020

Abstract

Whistleblowers may face significant costs from reporting on misconduct. While regulations offering monetary rewards to ensure a certain level of reporting have become increasingly popular around the world, the European Union remains hesitant, requiring only minimum protection for whistleblowers by December 2021. It is up to the individual member states to decide about implementing additional reward schemes. We contribute to the on-going policy developments by analyzing the impact of monetary rewards on managers' and employees' behavior. Our model explicitly considers two unique aspects of whistleblowing: (i) potential whistleblowers act on suspicion rather than actively searching for misconduct, and (ii) their doubt might be wrong and result in false accusations. We derive trade-off conditions that regulators have to consider when weighting rewards, protection from retaliation, and fines for manipulation to achieve an efficient regime. While monetary rewards can compensate for retaliation and foster whistleblowing, higher rewards also come at the cost of increasing false reports. The strength of a whistleblowing regulation further depends on the litigation environment due to potential substitution effects, with stricter litigation weakening its efficiency.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Fraud, Misreporting, Retaliation, Reward, Whistleblowing

JEL Classification: C72, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Franke, Benedikt and Moser, Henrik and Simons, Dirk, A Carrot Without a Stick - The Effect of Monetary Rewards on Corporate Whistleblowing (August 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2822313 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2822313
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
C F Alford
Whistle-blower narratives: The experience of choiceless choice
Social Research , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 223 - 248 Posted: 2007
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) (2020)
ACFE
Crossref
R M Bowen , A C Call , S Rajgopal
Whistle-blowing: Target firm characteristics and economic consequences
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1239 - 1271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Kathleen F. Brickey
From Enron to Worldcom and Beyond: Life and Crime after Sarbanes-Oxley
Washington University Law Quarterly, Vol. 81, 2003 Pages: 43 Posted: 30 Sep 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
424
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,385
RANK
157,646
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies