Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Failure of New Zealand Finance Companies – An Exploratory Investigation

Pacific Accounting Review, Vol. 28, No. 3, 2016

42 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2017

Humayun Kabir

Auckland University of Technology

Li Su

Auckland University of Technology

Asheq Rahman

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

Date Written: August 19, 2016

Abstract

Purpose – The setting of private finance companies failing in New Zealand during 2006-12 was characterised by weaker corporate governance and enforcement of securities law. This paper explores audit failure in this setting and examines whether auditors erred in their audits of the failed finance companies and whether the audit failure rate of Big N auditors was different from that of non-Big N auditors.

Design/methodology/approach – This paper adopts the archival research method, and utilises three sets of evidence to assess audit failure – the frequency of going-concern opinion (GCO) prior to failure, misstatements in the last audited financial statements, and the violation of the Code of Ethics.

Findings – The study found that only 41% of the sample companies received the GCO in their last audit prior to failure, and provides evidence of material misstatements in the financial statements of a number of failed finance companies that received clean audit opinions prior to failure, and breaches of the Code of Ethics by a number of auditors. These results strongly indicate audit failure for a number of failed finance companies. The audit failure rate, however, appears less for Big N auditors than for non-Big N auditors.

Practical implications – The study draws the attention of the stock market regulator and the accounting profession to an area, the audit of private finance companies, that needs better quality audits.

Originality/value – This paper provides systematic evidence of audit failure in failed finance companies in New Zealand. It also furnishes preliminary evidence of Big N auditors compensating for weaker corporate governance.

Keywords: Audit Failure, Audit Quality, Finance Companies, Institutional Environment

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kabir, Humayun and Su, Li and Rahman, Asheq, Audit Failure of New Zealand Finance Companies – An Exploratory Investigation (August 19, 2016). Pacific Accounting Review, Vol. 28, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2826351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
W G Blacconiere , M L Defond
An investigation of independent audit opinions and subsequent independent auditor litigation of publicly-traded failed savings and loans
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , p. 415 - 454 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J V Carcello , T L Neal
Audit committee composition and auditor reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 453 - 467 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J V Carcello , T L Neal
Audit committee characteristics and auditor dismissals following ''new'' going-concern reports
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 117 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,854
RANK
357,435
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies