Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholders’ Perception of Forensic Accounting Relevance in Nigeria

. Enofe, A. O., Izevbigie, D.P.I., & Agbonlahor, V.A. (2014) Stakeholders’ perception of forensic accounting relevance in Nigeria. Finance and banking review (FBR), Department of Banking & Finance, Faculty of Management Sciences, University of Benin, Benin City. Edo State, Nigeria. Vol. 8 (1&2), Jan

24 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2016

Augustine Enofe

University of Benin

Iyen Izevbigie

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

V.A. Agbonlahor

University of Benin

Date Written: July 10, 2014

Abstract

This study is an investigation of forensic accounting relevance and stakeholders’ perception in the Nigeria context. The survey method was adopted through the administration of copies of questionnaire to 200 respondents which cut across all the identified stakeholders. 188 copies of questionnaire were retrieved for purpose of data analyses. The data analyses were done using chi-square and the results were used to test all hypotheses. The result shows that equity holders, creditors, public and management all have a positive perception of forensic accounting relevance in financial reporting. It is therefore recommended that forensic accounting practices be given the needed legal framework that will make it mandatory for all reporting entities both in public and private sectors to engage the services of forensic accountants in their financial reporting processes.

Suggested Citation:

Enofe, Augustine and Izevbigie, Iyen and Agbonlahor, V.A., Stakeholders’ Perception of Forensic Accounting Relevance in Nigeria (July 10, 2014). . Enofe, A. O., Izevbigie, D.P.I., & Agbonlahor, V.A. (2014) Stakeholders’ perception of forensic accounting relevance in Nigeria. Finance and banking review (FBR), Department of Banking & Finance, Faculty of Management Sciences, University of Benin, Benin City. Edo State, Nigeria. Vol. 8 (1&2), Jan, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
F Adegbie , A S Fakile
Economics and Financial Crime in Nigeria: Forensic Accounting as Antidote
British journal of arts and social sciences , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 2046 - 9578 Posted: 2012
Forensic Procedures and Specialists: Useful Tools and Techniques.Special Report by Business Valuation and Forensic and Litigation Services Section of AICPA
AICPA Posted: 2006
A E Akhidime , R E Uagbale-Ekatah
The Growing Relevance of Forensic Accounting as a Tool for Combating Fraud and Corruption: Nigeria Experience , volume 5 , p. 2222 - 2847 Posted: 2014
Madan Lal Bhasin
An Emperical Investigation of the Relevant Skills of Forensic Accountants: Experience of a Developing Economy
Pages: 43 Posted: 20 Oct 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,495
RANK
461,853
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies