Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Confidential Priviledge on Forensic Accountant in Litigation Support Services

West African Journal of Business and Management Sciences, Nigerian Edition, Vol. 4(2), p. 118-126, August 2015

17 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2016

Augustine Enofe

University of Benin

Iyen Izevbigie

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

E. Usifo

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 4, 2015

Abstract

The objective of this study is to ascertain the impact of confidential privilege on forensic accountants’ effectiveness during litigation support services.

The survey method was used to gather data from respondents which include legal practioners, professional accountants and forensic accounting students through the administration of fifty (50) copies of likert-scale questionnaire. But forty-three (43) copies were return completed; hence a sample of 43 respondents was used for data analyses, while the responses were coded in numerical scale to suit the statistical and econometric analytical tool.

The analyses of the micro study were done with the aid of the undated ordinary least square regression (OLS) technique using Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS 20). The result of the analyses shows that confidentiality of information influences forensic accountant effectiveness during litigation support services; the disclosure of confidential information may not give credibility to expert testimony during litigation support; and that the disclosures of confidential information by the forensic accountant can help convince the judge during legal proceeding. Consequently, the study recommends that forensic accountants should always exhibit high degree of dexterity while serving as an expert in the course of litigation support during pre-trial, trial and post-trial situation.

Suggested Citation:

Enofe, Augustine and Izevbigie, Iyen and Usifo, E., Impact of Confidential Priviledge on Forensic Accountant in Litigation Support Services (April 4, 2015). West African Journal of Business and Management Sciences, Nigerian Edition, Vol. 4(2), p. 118-126, August 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
W S Albrecht
Identifying fraudulent financial transactions: A framework for detecting financial statement fraud Posted: 2005
E Bailly
Litigation Services for Attorneys. An Independent Member Firm of HLB International Rev: 11 Posted: 2014
M Bhasin
Forensic accounting: A new paradigm for niche consulting. The Chartered Accountant, Country , p. 1000 - 1010 Posted: 2007
O Clarke
Corporate investigations #4 -Retaining legal professional privilege Posted: 2013-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,290
RANK
369,949
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies