Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Best Practices to Mitigate Frauds

Posted: 5 Oct 2016

C'Lamt Ho, D.B.A.

Saint Leo University | Tampa Area; Saint Leo University - Donald R. Tapia School of Business

Date Written: October 4, 2016

Abstract

In today’s fast paced global business environment, risk of fraud has increased dramatically over the years. It is essential for all stakeholders within each entity to play an important role of managing business fraud risk. It does not matter the size of each business or business sector. Fraud activities have led to the downfall of many companies worldwide. With collapse of large corporation such as Enron, WorldCom, Parmalat, Tyco, HealthSouth, Qwest, AIG, Global Crossing, and the most recent fraud from Wells Fargo, the general public and other stakeholders are expected all organizations to have a zero fraud tolerance culture. Laws and regulations have implemented over the years in which have not deterred or eliminated risk of frauds. With the implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the United States Federal Sentencing Guidelines of 2005, and other similar regulations worldwide have increased the pressure for companies to take responsibility in managing frauds, however. Thus, it is critical for all organizations around the world to develop an effective and efficient fraud exposure management program. This includes fraud control policy, fraud risk evaluation standards, fraud prevention techniques, detection control plan, and investigation and corrective action plan. Furthermore, the public and stakeholders should look into the kind of fraud management training that companies have in place and how often staffs receive training on how to detect frauds, investigate frauds, prevent frauds, and take corrective action. With effective and efficient fraud exposure management program and through ongoing effort and diligent, companies around the world can protect itself against fraud and deter future fraud activities. Most importantly, an effective program and take a proactive approach in managing fraud risk could help companies to minimize fraud risk and future losses.

Keywords: Business Fraud, Risk of Fraud Management, Risk Detection, Risk Assessment, Risk Policy

Suggested Citation:

Ho, D.B.A., C'Lamt, Best Practices to Mitigate Frauds (October 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2847888
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies