Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Fraud Deterrence in the Nigeria Public Sector

Enofe, A.O., Ibadin, P.O., Audu, G.O., & Izevbigie, D.P.I. (2014) Forensic Accounting and Fraud Deterrence in the Nigeria Public Sector. West African Journal of Business and Management Sciences, faculty of Business administration, Imo State University, Owerri. Nigerian Edition Vol. 3(3) 72-86, Dece

25 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2016

Augustine Enofe

University of Benin

P. Ibadin

University of Benin

G. Audu

University of Benin

Iyen Izevbigie

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 8, 2014

Abstract

This study examines forensic accounting and fraud deterrence in the Nigerian public sector. Using the survey method of data gathering, a total of one hundred (100) questionnaires were distributed to respondents which cuts across political office holders, civil society group, and the general public. A total of ninety (90) questionnaires were retrieved for the purpose of data analyses which were done with the aid of chi-square, to test our hypotheses. Our result shows that the use of forensic accountant to uncover fraud patterns, the use of forensic accountant to prosecute fraud perpetrators, and Quality forensic investigation that lead to successful prosecution, can help deter fraud in the public sector. It was also revealed that forensic accounting can help shape stakeholder’s attitude away from fraudulent practices in the public sector. Finally, our study shows that a mere threat of forensic investigation cannot deter fraud in the Nigerian public sector. It is therefore recommended that an act of parliament be enacted in Nigeria to make mandatory the inclusion of forensic accounting in government financial and non-financial activities.

Suggested Citation:

Enofe, Augustine and Ibadin, P. and Audu, G. and Izevbigie, Iyen, Forensic Accounting and Fraud Deterrence in the Nigeria Public Sector (December 8, 2014). Enofe, A.O., Ibadin, P.O., Audu, G.O., & Izevbigie, D.P.I. (2014) Forensic Accounting and Fraud Deterrence in the Nigeria Public Sector. West African Journal of Business and Management Sciences, faculty of Business administration, Imo State University, Owerri. Nigerian Edition Vol. 3(3) 72-86, Dece, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2848089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Use of a lie detector to carry out investigation cannot deter fraud? (a) Strongly agree (b) agree (c) undecided (d) disagree (e) strongly disagree 12. Expert witness assistance in carrying out prosecution cannot deter fraud? (a) Strongly agree (b) agree (c) undecided (d) disagree (e) strongly disagree Ho5: Forensic Accounting Cannot Help Shape Stakeholder's Attitude Away From Fraudulent Practices in the Public Sector 13. Managers confidence in forensic accounting cannot deter fraud? (a) Strongly agree (b) agree (c) undecided (d) disagree (e) strongly disagree 14. Employees' confidence in forensic accounting cannot deter fraud? (a) Strongly agree (b) agree (c) undecided (d) disagree (e) strongly disagree 15
Ho4: Quality Forensic Investigation That Lead to Successful Prosecution Cannot Help Deter Fraud in the Public Sector. 10
W S Albrecht
Identifying fraudulent financial transactions: A framework for detecting financial statement fraud Posted: 2005
C Beccaria
An Economic Theory of Crime and Punishment.M12_COOT0650_SE_06_C12 Posted: 2010
M Bhasin
Forensic accounting: A new paradigm for niche consulting. The Chartered Accountant, Country , p. 1000 - 1010 Posted: 2007
Load more
2 Citations
Professor Alain Aime Ndedi , Akepe Enobi , Samora P.Z Wolokolie
A framework of Forensic Accounting Analytics and Pension Fund Administration in Selected Administrations in Liberia
20 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2020 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dr. Samora P. Z. Wolokolie
A framework of Forensic Accounting Analytics and Pension Fund Administration in Selected Administrations in Liberia
21 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2020 · Downloads: 446
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,487
RANK
266,546
2 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies