Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cyber-Risk Disclosure: Who Cares?

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2852519

59 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2016

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Benjamin Segal

Fordham University; Hebrew University of Jerusalem

May H. Zhang

Fordham University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Date Written: October 14, 2016

Abstract

Cyber-risks have generated considerable interest in the media and in the public. Perhaps as a response, regulators are devoting an increasing amount of resources to improving corporate disclosure related to these risks. In contrast, we find that, despite this increased focus, cyber risk disclosures by publicly listed firms remain scant. Moreover, a qualitative analysis of five major cases as well as a systematic analysis of security price reactions upon the announcement of breaches shows that the effect on stock prices is very limited. We do not observe strong reactions after the breaches. A “Diff-in-Diff” analysis reveals that the change in operational performance, in executive departure likelihood, in shareholder clientele or in the amount of disclosure does not differ from the changes in a matched sample of firms that were not breached. This lack of reaction is inconsistent with a market or regulatory failure associated with the poor disclosure on cyber-risk.

Keywords: cyber-security, privacy, disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Hilary, Gilles and Segal, Benjamin and Zhang, May H., Cyber-Risk Disclosure: Who Cares? (October 14, 2016). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2852519, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852519 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2852519
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Acquisti , A Friedman , R Telang
Is there a cost to privacy breaches? An event study Posted: 2006
Br Barber , J Lyon
Detecting long-run abnormal stock returns: The empirical power and specifications of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 372 Posted: 1997
Crossref
B Bushee
The influence of institutional investors on myopic investment behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1998
B Bushee
Do institutional investors prefer near-term earnings over long-run value?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 18 , p. 207 - 246 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
52 Citations
Henk Berkman , Jonathan Jona , Gladys Lee , Naomi Soderstrom
Cybersecurity awareness and market valuations
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 37 , issue 6 , p. 508 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Gilles Hilary , Vanessa Serret
Governance and digital transformation
Finance Contrôle Stratégie , volume 27-1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Zhijian (Chris) He , JiangBo HuangFu , Stephanie Walton
Cybersecurity Breaches in the Supply Chain and Earnings Management
Journal of Information Systems , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 83 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Russell Lange , Eric W. Burger
Long-term market implications of data breaches, not
Journal of Information Privacy and Security , p. 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,701
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,855
RANK
23,954
52 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies