Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Financial Misreporting with Real Production Activity: Evidence from an Electricity Consumption Analysis

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2016 Last revised: 6 Feb 2021

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Bok Baik

Seoul National University

Yongoh Roh

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 5, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether a real production activity measure, firm-level electricity consumption growth, is useful in detecting firm financial misreporting. We hypothesize that the difference between revenue growth and electricity consumption growth (i.e., growth wedge) is a useful signal of financial misreporting. Using electricity consumption data for Korean firms from 2006 to 2014, we find that the growth wedge is positively associated with discretionary revenues and accruals and the likelihood of financial misreporting as proxied by accounting restatements, qualified audit opinions, and regulatory enforcement actions. The growth wedge provides incremental information over firm characteristics and earnings management signals proposed by prior research. Our findings are robust to a battery of additional tests including within-firm and industry comparisons that do not require access to cross-sectional firm-level electricity data. Overall, our study documents new evidence on the role of a real production activity measure from an independent reporting entity in detecting financial misreporting.

Keywords: Financial misreporting; Fraud; Nonfinancial information; Forensic economics; Accrual accounting; Real production

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M49, G30, G38, K42

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Baik, Bok and Roh, Yongoh, Detecting Financial Misreporting with Real Production Activity: Evidence from an Electricity Consumption Analysis (February 5, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2856472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2856472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky"?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R C Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1329 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Armstrong , D Larcker , G Ormazabal , D Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 50 Posted: 2013
Crossref
V Arora , J Lieskovsky
Electricity use as an indicator of US economic activity Posted: 2016-03
Load more
2 Citations
Peng-Chia Chiu , Siew Hong Teoh , Yinglei Zhang , Xuan Huang
Using Google Searches of Firm Products to Detect Revenue Management
Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 13 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 17 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 845
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elizabeth Blankespoor , Bradley E. Hendricks , Joseph D. Piotroski , Christina Synn
Real-time revenue and firm disclosure
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper · 60 Pages · Posted: 11 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 8 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 691
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
650
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,803
RANK
93,094
2 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies