Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Forensic Expertise and Time Pressure on Fraud Risk Assessment and Responsiveness

31 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2016

Inez Verwey

Nyenrode Business University

Stephen Kwaku Asare

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 4, 2016

Abstract

Professional standards direct auditors to consult with forensic specialists to enhance the quality of fraud decisions. However, research underlying this prescription is limited. We address this gap by examining the effect of forensic expertise and time pressure on fraud cue identification and responsiveness in an experiment manipulating forensic expertise (forensic specialist versus auditor) and time pressure (present versus absent). The results show that forensic specialists identify more fraud cues than auditors, although this did not result in differential fraud risk assessment. Further, auditors not only plan less effective audit procedures than forensic specialists but also the performance difference is more substantial in the more realistic time pressure condition. However, as with prior studies, we did not find an association between fraud risk assessment and the planning of audit procedures for both groups. Taken together, the results provide evidence that consulting forensic specialists can enhance fraud decision quality and the performance difference is attributable to fraud cue identification and program planning but not through differential assessment of fraud risk assessment or its linkage to program planning.

Keywords: Audit Planning, Fraud Risks, Time Budget Pressure, Forensic Specialists

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Verwey, Inez and Asare, Stephen Kwaku, The Effect of Forensic Expertise and Time Pressure on Fraud Risk Assessment and Responsiveness (November 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2864350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2864350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
For all increases in credit limits, review client analysis of distributor credit-worthiness. If no analysis exists, perform probing, substantive analysis of distributors
Test with end-users to confirm that Precision as encouraging them to buy from the distributors
Compare sales in the first quarter of 2011 to that indicated by Precision's operating plan. 12. Look at subsequent cash receipts for some of the large distributor sales
Compare orders taken via the marketing program to authorized credit limit
Load more
1 Citations
Inez Verwey , Tjibbe Bosman
Wat wetenschappelijk onderzoek ons leert over de fraude-detectievaardigheid van de controlerend accountant
Maandblad Voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie , volume 93 , issue 9/10 , p. 245 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
663
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,317
RANK
90,938
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies