Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Board Performance in the Nigerian Banking Industry

Journal of Accounting and Financial Management ISSN 2504-8856 Vol. 2 No.2 2016

15 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2016

Nkama O.

Evangel University

John Okey Onoh

Independent; Abia State University - Department of Banking and Finance

Date Written: November 1, 2016

Abstract

This study examined the relationship between forensic accounting and corporate governance. The survey design method was used for this study and primary source was used in generating data for this research. This study concentrated on fifteen (15) staff of First Bank PLC in head quarters Marina Lagos from the finance and control department of the bank. Result emanating from the finding of this study revealed that there is a significant positive relationship the application of forensic accounting and corporate governance measured by board performance. This implies that the application of forensic accounting has the potential of improving corporate governance through enhanced board performance of organizations. This study therefore concludes that forensic accounting is an essential ingredient at ensuring good corporate governance in banks. It is therefore; recommended that there should be proper separation of duties of board members. This will ensure that the boards are constituted properly thereby enhancing good corporate governance of Nigerian banks.

Suggested Citation:

O., Nkama and Onoh, John Okey and Onoh, John Okey, Forensic Accounting and Board Performance in the Nigerian Banking Industry (November 1, 2016). Journal of Accounting and Financial Management ISSN 2504-8856 Vol. 2 No.2 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2865129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
M S Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation Between the Board of Director Composition and Financial Statement Fraud. The Accounting Review , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
What is forensic accounting? Forensic accounting: Older than you think
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 202 Posted: 2003
D L Crumbley
So what is forensic accounting?
The ABO Reporter Fall Posted: 2009
P Dechow , R Sloan , A Sweeney
Causes and consequences of earnings manipulation: An analysis of firms subject to enforcement actions by the SEC
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,740
RANK
151,074
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies