Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud Detection, Conservatism and Political Economy of Whistle-Blowing

Academic Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies 5 (3), 17-24

22 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2016

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This paper presents a discussion on whistle-blowing and take the view that whistle-blowing is an important fraud detection technique. A discussion of some factors that influence whistle-blowers’ incentive to blow the whistle or to remain silent in the face of persuasive fraud red flags, is also presented. The paper suggests that the tradeoff between the cost and benefit of whistle-blowing may compel the whistle-blower to apply some degree of conservatism in their whistle-blowing activities. Also, some discussion on how whistle-blowing might be influenced by firm-level politics, country-level political economy, firm ownership and other institutional factors is presented. Finally, although the provision of incentives can increase the appeal to encourage whistle-blowing, the appeal to blow the whistle may be weakened when the whistle-blower takes into account the larger context that influence the decision to blow the whistle or to remain silent.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Fraud Detection, Whistle Blowing, Politics, Conservatism, Ownership Control, Political Economy, Fraud

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Fraud Detection, Conservatism and Political Economy of Whistle-Blowing (2016). Academic Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies 5 (3), 17-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2867492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
P Andon , C Free , R Jidin , G S Monroe , M J Turner
The Impact of Financial Incentives and Perceptions of Seriousness on Whistleblowing Intention
Journal of Business Ethics , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2016
Crossref
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting. The review of economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
T Barnett , K Bass , G Brown
Religiosity, ethical ideology, and intentions to report a peerʼs wrongdoing
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 15 , issue 11 , p. 1161 - 1174 Posted: 1996
Crossref
G A Brewer , C S Selden
Whistle blowers in the federal civil service: New evidence of the public service ethic
Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory , volume 3 , p. 413 - 439 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
RANK
262,392
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies