Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Concerns about Earnings Quality: An Examination of Corporate Managers

61 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2016 Last revised: 29 Dec 2019

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Lorenzo Lucianetti

University of Chieti and Pescara

Tammie Rech Schaefer

University of Missouri at Kansas City

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 28, 2019

Abstract

Using an experiment with corporate financial managers (e.g., CFOs, controllers), we find that when red flags are present in the financial statements under their review, managers identify those red flags and, in turn, have greater concerns over earnings quality. In addition, when pressure to meet a financial target is high, managers are more concerned about earnings quality when red flags are present. We also document that when red flags are present, managers are more likely to report both internally to their CEO and, if their concerns are not resolved internally, externally to their auditor. Pressure to meet a financial target directly influenced the decision to report internally, but not externally. Additional analyses document the important roles short-term personal costs, job tenure, and a non-accounting background play in the ethical dilemma managers face when deciding whether to report externally. Last, when pressure is low, we observe that CFOs are less apt to respond to red flags than other corporate managers (e.g., controllers, financial accounting managers).

Keywords: Earnings Management, Earnings Quality, Fraud, Red Flags, Reporting, Whistleblowing

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Lucianetti, Lorenzo and Schaefer, Tammie Rech, Reporting Concerns about Earnings Quality: An Examination of Corporate Managers (December 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2874478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2874478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse: 2014 global fraud study Posted: 2014
Acfe
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse: 2016 global fraud study Posted: 2016
Acfe
Report to the nations: 2018 global study on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2018
M Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Load more
2 Citations
Radiah Othman , Rashid Ameer
Handbook of Research on Accounting and Financial Studies
, p. 381 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Ling Harris , Scott B. Jackson , Joel Owens , Nicholas Seybert
Recruiting Dark Personalities for Earnings Management
68 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 247
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,932
RANK
339,258
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies