Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Forensic Accounting in the Prevention of Financial Shenanigans and Frauds in Cooperatives

Posted: 2 Dec 2016

Rajat Deb

Tripura University

Date Written: April 20, 2013

Abstract

As the resentment against corruption assumes unprecedented proportions, with un-elected heroes of civil society at the helm, it is also important to stock of corrupt practices in all form of businesses including the cooperative sectors of India. Most of the cooperative disasters commenced from ethical bankruptcy on the part of senior executives as they tend to show annual growth in business, caused by the infectious greed, brought in creative accounting and earnings management philosophy. The myopic profit-led approach as against value-led approach paved the way for the biggest bankruptcy! While most cooperative societies reporting their financial performance, some take advantage of grey areas in the rules in order to portray their bottom line in a misleadingly positive way. Management's desire to put a positive spin on financial results has been around as long as cooperatives and members themselves. Dishonest cooperatives have long used these tricks to prey on unsuspecting members and stakeholders, and it is unlikely that they will ever cease to do so. The lure of accounting gimmickry is particularly strong at cooperatives that are struggling to keep up with their members' – investors' expectations or their competitors' performance. And while most of the stakeholders have become savvier to these gimmicks over the years, dishonest management of cooperatives continue to find new tricks to fool the members – investors and all stakeholders at large. Modern organized cooperative frauds are sophisticated, and well-resourced by managers, treasurers, politicians and score of others. There is the need to respond to this changing criminal threat and skills of non-traditional investigators like accountants and legal experts are needed to combat the financial shenanigans. The failure of statutory audit to prevent and reduce misappropriation of cooperative funds and an increase in such crime has put pressure on the professional accountants and legal practitioners to find better ways for prevention of white collar crimes. This paper, intends to find out the spectrum of financial shenanigans and frauds in the cooperatives and how the knowledge of forensic accounting can reduce such frauds and mismanagement.

Keywords: Financial Shenanigans, Forensic Accounting, Cooperative, Fraud Audit, Earnings Management, Creative Accounting

JEL Classification: C83

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Rajat, Role of Forensic Accounting in the Prevention of Financial Shenanigans and Frauds in Cooperatives (April 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2877599
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies