Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Corporate Governance Fraud: A Case of National Spot Exchange Limited

IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM), Volume 18, Issue 12, December 2016

9 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2016

Ajaz Islam

NIT Srinagar

Gohar Khan

The Islamic University of Science and Technology

Date Written: December 13, 2016

Abstract

Organization: NSEL (National Spot Exchange Limited) is the domestic level, institutionalised, electronic, apparent spot trading platform for commodities. It is an organized market place, set-up to make over the commodity market by way of minimising the cost of inter-mediation and thereby optimizing marketing efficiency. It is first of its kind of institutes and right from the beginning it was acclaimed to be a tool to revolutionize the commodity market. But it did not lost long as just after five years from its evolution with the NSEL appearing as an institutionalized but opaque and secretive den of speculation and possibly fraud turned all acclamation to be a myth.

Problem or Issue Addressed: The problem which will addressed in this case study is about the fraud which erupted due to the regulatory negligence of government, auditor’s inability and lack of corporate governance. The NSEL failed to pay to its investors who have invested in commodity pair contracts. And it was subsequently found that most of the of underlying commodities never existed and buying and selling of commodities like Steel, Paddy, Sugar, Ferrochrome etc. was being conducted only on paper. Later on it was found that some of the warehouses mentioned on NSEL website did not exist and even the SGF (Settlement Guarantee Fund) which was supposed to be about Rs 839 crores (about $ 140 Million) as on 29 July 2013 vanished into thin air.

Goals: The basic focus of the case to help understand the eruption and causes of a regulatory fraud. In this case study we are trying to evaluate eruption, causes, mechanism and consequences of 5600 crore rupees commodity market fraud. Further regulatory changes needed to be taken to avoid such kind of frauds in future are also debated upon.

Results: The basic cause for the eruption of such kind of frauds is lack of regulation in these types of commodity markets. The lack of regulation on behalf of our auditors who come out clean handedly from all such type of frauds are main causes for such type of frauds. Further, it is quite evident that there are only four persons in the board and two of whom belong to FTIL, so it was pretty obvious that most of the decisions will be taken in the interest of FTIL who is the promoter company and there is very mere chances that any of the directors are going to talk about the interest of the investors. This happened because of very weak corporate governance mechanism in place to keep in check the promoters of the exchange.

Lessons Learned: The case strengthens the need of vigilant regulatory systems in both private and public institutes. Further there is an urgent need to improve corporate governance in these institutions so that decisions will not be taken in the favor of majority of shareholders. Also the case highlights that there is a strong need to redefine the role of auditors to avoid such kind of frauds in future.

Keywords: Regulatory fraud, Corporate Governance, Spot exchange

JEL Classification: B24, B25, B26

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Ajaz and Khan, Gohar, Evaluating Corporate Governance Fraud: A Case of National Spot Exchange Limited (December 13, 2016). IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM), Volume 18, Issue 12, December 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2885669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 68 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of law and economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D B Farber
Restoring trust after fraud: Does corporate governance matter?
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 539 - 561 Posted: 2005
Crossref
CRIMINAL BAIL APPLICATION NO.1263 of
High Court Posted: 2014-09-25
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
704
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,345
RANK
84,001
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies