Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Estimation of Asset Fair Values

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2016 Last revised: 17 Jan 2018

Kathleen Weiss Hanley

Lehigh University - College of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Alan D. Jagolinzer

University of Cambridge Judge Business School

Stanislava (Stas) Nikolova

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Date Written: January 17, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether fair value (FV) input levels and estimation sources are related to FV inflation, the difference between an insurer’s FV estimate and the consensus FV estimate across the security’s holders. FV inflation is higher and self-estimation more likely, when insurers report using Level 3 inputs when the consensus level is 2. Regardless of the level, FV is greater when self-estimated. Public insurers who inflate FV through self-estimation, potentially obfuscate detection by reporting the use of Level 2 inputs. Insurers with stronger incentives to appear financially healthy choose to self-estimate, resulting in greater aggregate portfolio FV inflation.

Keywords: Fair value, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3, SFAS 157, insurance companies, regulatory capital, asset values, estimation bias

JEL Classification: G21, G22, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hanley, Kathleen Weiss and Jagolinzer, Alan D. and Nikolova, Stanislava (Stas), Strategic Estimation of Asset Fair Values (January 17, 2018). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2889160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2889160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
41 Citations
Rosario Roca , Francesco Potente , Luca Giulio Ciavoliello , Alessandro Conciarelli , Giovanni Diprizio , Lanfranco Lodi , Roberto Mosca , Perez Tommaso , Jacopo Raponi , Emiliano Sabatini , Antonio Schifino
Risks and Challenges of Complex Financial Instruments: An Analysis of SSM Banks
Bank of Italy Occasional Paper No. 417 · 48 Pages · Posted: 14 Feb 2018 · Downloads: 303
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marco Pompili , Marco Tutino
Fair value accounting and earning management: The impact of unobservable inputs on earning quality. Evidence from the US
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 8 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Marco Tutino , Marco Pompili
Fair value accounting and management opportunism on earnings management in banking sector: First evidence
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 59 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Kathleen Weiss Hanley , Stanislava (Stas) Nikolova
Rethinking the Use of Credit Ratings in Capital Regulations: Evidence from the Insurance Industry
Review of Corporate Finance Studies, Forthcoming · 60 Pages · Posted: 20 Nov 2013 · Last revised: 24 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 508
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
511
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,516
RANK
126,283
41 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies