Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inclusive Application of SAS No. 99 in the Effective Deterrence of Fraudulent Financial Reporting in Nigeria: Perception of Professional Accountants in Practice, Industries and Academics

Nwoye, U.J., Ekesiobi, C., Obiorah, J., & Abiahu, M.C. (2016). Inclusive Application of SAS No. 99 in the Effective Deterrence of Fraudulent Financial Reporting in Nigeria: Perception of Professional Accountants in Practice, Industries and Academics, The Nigerian Accountant, 49(4): pp. 42 – 48.

10 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2016

Dr. Ugochukwu Nwoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy, Students

Ekesiobi Chukwunonso

Anambra State University

Justina Obiorah

Federal Polytechnic Oko

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 27, 2016

Abstract

The study focuses on the inclusive application of SAS No. 99 in the effective deterrence of fraudulent financial reporting in Nigeria. Being a perceptive study, the exploratory research design was adopted. A total of 91 samples were judgmentally selected comprising practicing accountants in the industries, professional auditors and the accounting academics in Enugu and Anambra States respectively. The Two way ANOVA statistical tool, using SPSS 17.0, was deployed in testing the two hypotheses formulated for this research work. The outcome of the analyses showed that there exist no significant difference in the opinions of the selected accountants in Enugu and Anambra on how auditors primary objectives of forming opinion on the true and fair view and absence of material misstatement in companies’ financial statement will be breached if SAS 99’s core emphasis on fraud detection and deterrence is upheld in Nigeria as part of auditors’ audit primary responsibilities, this implies that any attempt to mandatorily maintain SAS 99 core emphasis (fraud detection) as auditors’ audit obligation in Nigeria will breach her existing primary audit objective of merely forming opinion on the true and fair view of companies’ financial statement. We also found out that there exists no significant difference in the opinions of selected accountants in Enugu and Anambra on how any widening of the scope of auditors’ responsibility to include fraud detection will trigger a corresponding rise in the cost of audit thus affecting audit fees so charged. We therefore recommended that the applicable/existing Nigeria Standards on Auditing (NSA) be reviewed afresh to reflect relevant guidelines of SAS 99 especially as it concerns brainstorming, in order to boost Nigeria auditors’ fraud detection and skeptical skills towards effectively deterring fraudulent and material sensitive erring financial disclosure practices among publicly listed and privately owned organisations in Nigeria.

Keywords: Brainstorming, Cost of audit, Fraud detection, Fraudulent financial reporting, SAS 99, True and fair view

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nwoye, Dr. Ugochukwu and Chukwunonso, Ekesiobi and Obiorah, Justina and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Inclusive Application of SAS No. 99 in the Effective Deterrence of Fraudulent Financial Reporting in Nigeria: Perception of Professional Accountants in Practice, Industries and Academics (December 27, 2016). Nwoye, U.J., Ekesiobi, C., Obiorah, J., & Abiahu, M.C. (2016). Inclusive Application of SAS No. 99 in the Effective Deterrence of Fraudulent Financial Reporting in Nigeria: Perception of Professional Accountants in Practice, Industries and Academics, The Nigerian Accountant, 49(4): pp. 42 – 48., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2890441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2890441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Special Report, Forensic Procedures and Specialists: Useful Tools & Techniques. AICPA, (2010), Statement on Auditing Standards: Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit (Redrafted) Posted: 1988
Crossref
P Alleyne , M Howard
An Exploratory Study of Posted: 2005
Auditors' Responsibility for Fraud Detection in Barbados
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 284 - 303
Crossref
T D Carpenter
Audit Team Brainstorming, Fraud Risk Identification, and Fraud Risk Assessment: Implication of SAS No. 99
Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 5 , p. 1119 - 1140 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,895
RANK
344,140
3 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies