Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting Education in the UAE

15 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2017

Ganga Bhavani

Manipal University of Dubai

Anupam Mehta

Institute of Management Technology

Christian Tabi Amponsah

Yorkville University; Yorkville University

Date Written: December 14, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: This paper presents the current scenario of offerings and availability of forensic accounting education in universities in the UAE. This study is useful in gaining a complete understanding of available courses on forensic accounting at the graduate and postgraduate level, especially in accounting specialization. The other purpose of this study is to compare the curriculum of UAE universities with the one recommended by the National Institute of Justice (NIJ).

Research Method: A total of 75 institutions accredited and licensed by the CAA are included in this study. Course description or content is collected from universities by writing personal mails to concerned university program directors or deans to request for a copy of the same.

Findings: The results provides insight into the direction of forensic accounting education in the UAE, where developing and improving forensic accounting education offerings has created serious buzz across the globe. Because of the increasing number of various corporate scandals all over the world, forensic accounting education has become the order of the day, and every accounting student needs to be trained in this field and every university has to offer it as part of the curriculum.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Course Content, Graduate and Postgraduate Levels, Accounting Curriculum

Suggested Citation:

Bhavani, Ganga and Mehta, Anupam and Amponsah, Christian Tabi and Amponsah, Christian Tabi, Forensic Accounting Education in the UAE (December 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899481 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2899481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
T T Abdullah , M M Alfadhl , S Yahya , Rabi A M
The Role of Forensic Accounting in Reducing Financial Corruption: A Study in Iraq
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 34 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Forensic Accounting: Public Acceptance towards Occurrence of Fraud Detection
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 4 , issue 11 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE)
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2014
Crossref
Report to the nation on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,875
RANK
204,782
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies