Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Internal Audit as a Starting Point for the Discovery of Irregularities in the Financial Statements of Public Companies in Kosovo

European Journal of Economics and Business Studies, Vol 7, No. 1, 2017

7 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2017

Hysen Ismajli

University of Pristina

Muhamet Aliu

University of Prishtina - Faculty of Economics

Arben Sahiti

University of Kadri Zeka, Faculty of Economics

Lumbardha Lutolli

University of Prishtina, Faculty of Economics, Students

Date Written: January 27, 2017

Abstract

The main purpose of this paper is to verify whether the internal audit affects the detection of anomalies and fraud in the financial statements of public companies in Kosovo. To achieve this purpose, we have prepared a questionnaire and distributed to public enterprises in the Republic of Kosovo. The questionnaire includes open and closed questions in the form of Likert scale established to assess proposition and opposition of the participants. Responses were analyzed through SPSS software, and hypotheses were tested by analyzing the correlation.

Based on results we can conclude that the role of internal audit can serve as a starting point in finding fraud and errors in financial reports.

Keywords: Internal audit, fraud, public companies, performance, standards

JEL Classification: F0, G0, G2, G3

Suggested Citation:

Ismajli, Hysen and Aliu, Muhamet and Sahiti, Arben and Lutolli, Lumardha, The Role of Internal Audit as a Starting Point for the Discovery of Irregularities in the Financial Statements of Public Companies in Kosovo (January 27, 2017). European Journal of Economics and Business Studies, Vol 7, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
G K Agarwal , Y Medury
Internal Auditor as Accounting Fraud Buster'' The IUP journal of accounting research & audit practices , volume 13 , p. 7 - 13 Posted: 2014
P Alleyne , M Howard
An exploratory study of auditors'responsibility for fraud detection in Barbados. Department of Management Studies Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Ayagre
The adoption of risk based internal auditing in developing countries: The case of Ghanian companies
European Journals of Accounting Auditing and Finance Research , volume 2 , issue 7 , p. 52 - 65 Posted: 2014
G R Brady , J D Lowe
The New Role of the Internal Auditor: Implications for Internal Auditor Objectivity
International Journal of Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 176 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,629
RANK
194,508
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies