Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating Corporate Governance and Forensic Accounting: A Study of an Asian Country

International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 6, Issue 1 (2017)

22 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2017

Madan Lal Bhasin

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: January 2017

Abstract

The accounting scandals during the last three decades have induced a crisis of confidence in financial reporting practices and effectiveness of corporate governance (CG) mechanisms. Indeed, Forensic Accounting (FA) integrates accounting, auditing and investigative skills to conduct investigations in variety of fraud cases. An increasing number of researchers are finding that "poor" CG is a leading factor in dismal performance, manipulated financial reports, and unhappy stakeholders. Some leading corporations and regulatory bodies, however, are trying their best efforts to analyze and correct the existing loopholes in the reporting system. Undoubtedly, qualified, trained and mature Chartered Forensic Accountants (CFA's) can prove to be a valuable asset to the corporate sector, and gradually help to improve their CG system. The CFA's, being professional member of the CG and Audit Committees, can play a far greater role in coordinating company efforts to achieve a cohesive policy of ethical behavior within an organization. By helping companies to detect and prevent fraud, create a "positive" work environment, establish "effective" lines of communication, and be vigilant as a corporate "watchdog", the CFA's role can gradually evolve into a key component in the CG system.

In the 21st century, the Forensic Chartered Accountants (FCAs) are in great demand and "FA is listed among the top-20 careers of the future."

The fundamental objective of this study is to find out "how can we integrate the expertise of the Forensic Accounting (FA) to improve the overall corporate governance (CG) scenario prevalent in India?" Since very little research exists in this area, present research is exploratory in nature. This is a preliminary investigation of the necessary skills, educational and training requirements for CFA's to improve CG system. We surveyed academics, practicing fraud and forensic professionals in order determine the perceptions of the professional community. During 2011-12, a questionnaire-based survey was conducted in the National Capital Region of India using a sample size of 120 practicing chartered accountants, accounting academics, and potential users of FA services. In fact, this study is a "preliminary" investigation of the necessary skills, education and training requirements for the professional community. The results of this "exploratory" study, with few minor differences, indicate that potential practitioners, academics and users agree that "critical thinking, written & oral communication, legal knowledge, auditing skills, deductive analysis, investigative flexibility, analytical proficiency and unstructured problem-solving are the most important skills required for the CFAs."

Moreover, we found that all of the skills investigated in this study are "potentially" important for the CFAs, which the educators at the Universities should use as an overall guide while designing their FA curriculum.

Keywords: : Forensic accounting, chartered forensic accountants, corporate governance, Asian country, financial reporting, regulatory bodies.

Suggested Citation:

Bhasin, Madan Lal, Integrating Corporate Governance and Forensic Accounting: A Study of an Asian Country (January 2017). International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 6, Issue 1 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2912728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
The 2011 Forensic and Valuation Services Trend Survey,‖ AICPA, available at www.aicpa.org Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Aderibigbe
The Role of the Forensic Chartered Accountant,‖ The Nigeria Accountant , p. 15 - 20 Posted: 2000-07
Crossref
N Ahadiat
Skills Necessary for a Successful Career in Accounting,‖ Journal of the Department of Accounting, College of Business Administration Posted: 2010
M D Akers , G L Porter
Your EQ Skills: Got What It Takes?
‖ Journal of Accountancy , volume 195 , issue 3 , p. 65 - 69 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,366
RANK
43,711
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies