Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of the Computerised Accounting Information Systems Frauds in Licensed Banks in Sri Lanka

21 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2017

Kennedy Gunawardana

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to investigate the trends in frauds of computerised accounting information systems in Sri Lankan licensed banks. Sri Lankan licensed banking sector which is the most feasible service industry contributing enormously to the growth of the country. Security controls of Computerise accounting information system in the corporate sector is taken into consideration as this is currently a growing trend around the world. The core objective is to identify the frauds in the computerised accounting information systems in licensed banks in Sri Lanka.

Critical reviews of past literature indicate a clear cut connection between fraud deductions in CAIS through security control systems. In order to find out the applicability of this relationship Sri Lanka, research will be undertaken in licence banks in Colombo region. The report consists secondary data which facilitate to achieve the aforementioned objectives. Secondary data analysis the existing computerized frauds in licensed banks as well as existing security control systems in licensed bank in Sri Lanka. However in secondary data analysis it clearly illustrate the computerized accounting frauds have been increased drastically. So licensed banks should have to implement the more security control systems to overcome those problems.

Keywords: Computerised accounting information systems frauds, Fraud detection, Security control systems, Licensed banks

Suggested Citation:

Gunawardana, Kennedy, An Empirical Investigation of the Computerised Accounting Information Systems Frauds in Licensed Banks in Sri Lanka (2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2932007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2932007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Abu Musa , A A
Exploring the perceive threats of computerized accounting information systems in emerging countries: An empirical study of Saudi organizations
Department of Accounting & MIS KFUPM , volume 21 , p. 387 - 407 Posted: 2009
Abu Musa , A A
Information technology and its implications for internal auditing an empirical study of Saudi organizations. Department of Accounting and MIS , volume 23 , p. 438 - 466 Posted: 2008
Abu Musa , A A
Evaluating the security controls of CAIS in developing countries: an examination of current research. Department of Accounting & MIS, College of Industrial management, King Fahd University of petroleum's & Minerals , volume 15 , p. 46 - 63 Posted: 2007
Abu Musa , A A
Investigating the security controls of CAIS in an emerging economy: An empirical study of the Egyptian banking industry. Department of Accounting & MIS, College of Industrial management, King Fahd University of petroleum's & Minerals , volume 19 , p. 272 - 302 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,379
RANK
210,853
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies