Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Illusion of Insight in an Extended Auditor's Report

32 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2017 Last revised: 9 May 2017

Michael Pakaluk

Busch School of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 11, 2017

Abstract

KPMG's discussion of Bribery and Corruption as a Key Audit Matter (KAM) in the Extended Auditor's Reports (EAR) of Rolls-Royce for 2013-2015 is examined as implying limitations on EARs in general.

The KAM for Bribery and Corruption was apparently written in view of the company's legal interests rather than from the point of view of what an investor would want to know from a truly independent representative with that kind of privileged access.

The Financial Reporting Council has stated that the two purposes of EARs are (i) to inform investors and (ii) to give them greater confidence in the audit. However, (i) the Bribery and Corruption KAM failed significantly to inform investors, while yet, troublingly, giving the impression of informing them. Moreover, (ii) it encouraged a misplaced confidence, in view of the roughly $1 billion in fines and clawbacks in the (generous, highly mitigated) Rolls-Royce Deferred Prosecution Agreements of January 2017.

Keywords: Accounting, Audit, Auditing, Bribery, Corruption, FCPA, Bribery Act

JEL Classification: K42, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pakaluk, Michael, The Illusion of Insight in an Extended Auditor's Report (March 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2934682 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2934682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
223,562
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies