Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Auditor Tenure on Fraud and Its Detection

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-21

51 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2017 Last revised: 3 Dec 2018

Evelyn Patterson

Indiana University-Kelley School of Business

Reed Smith

Kelley School of Business

Samuel L. Tiras

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2018

Abstract

We examine the strategic effects of auditor tenure on the auditor’s testing strategy and the manager’s inclination to commit fraud. Most empirical studies conclude that longer tenure improves audit quality. Proponents of restricting tenure argue that longer tenure impairs auditor independence and a "fresh look" from a new auditor results in higher audit quality. Validating this argument requires testing whether the observed difference in audit quality between a continuing auditor and a change in auditors is less than the theoretically expected difference in audit quality without impairment. Our findings provide the guidance necessary for developing such tests. Our results show that audit risk (the probability that fraud exists and goes undetected) is lower in both periods for the continuing auditor than with a change in auditors. More importantly, we show that across both periods, expected undetected fraud is lower for the continuing auditor than with a change in auditors.

Keywords: Strategic auditing, auditor tenure, fraud

JEL Classification: C72, M42

Suggested Citation:

Patterson, Evelyn and Smith, J. Reed and Tiras, Samuel L., The Effects of Auditor Tenure on Fraud and Its Detection (November 30, 2018). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2935224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2935224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
M Cameran , J R Francis , A Marra , A Pettinicchio
Are there adverse consequences of mandatory auditor rotation? Evidence from the Italian experience
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C Corona , R S Randhawa
The auditor's slippery slope: An analysis of reputational incentives
Management Science , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 924 - 937 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Ghosh , D Moon
Auditor tenure and perceptions of audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 585 - 612 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Gipper , L Hail , C Leuz
On the economics of audit partner tenure and rotation: evidence from PCAOB data Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,699
RANK
131,892
18 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies