Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Influence of Behavioral Integrity on the Effect of Reporting Channel Administration and Bystander Awareness on Whistleblowing Intentions

Posted: 21 Mar 2017

Jingyu Gao

Renmin University of China

Bernard Wong-On-Wing

Washington State University

Date Written: March 17, 2017

Abstract

Behavioral integrity refers to the perceived pattern of alignment between an actor's words and deeds. This study examines the influence of management’s behavioral integrity with respect to whistleblowing, on employees’ intention to report fraudulent acts.

We posit that high behavioral integrity will:

(1) overcome the effect of perceived low assurance of whistleblower anonymity associated with internally administered reporting channels, and

(2) improve the low likelihood of whistleblowing due to the bystander effect.

The results of our experiment indicate that when behavioral integrity is high (low), the likelihood of whistleblowing is significantly higher (lower) if the reporting channel is administered internally than if it is administered externally. Similarly, when management’s behavioral integrity is high (low), whistleblowing intentions are stronger (weaker) when bystanders are aware of the would-be whistleblower’s knowledge of the fraud than when they are not aware. We discuss implications for research and practice.

Keywords: Behavioral Integrity, Whistleblowing Intention, Reporting Channel Administration, Bystander Awareness

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Jingyu and Wong-On-Wing, Bernard, The Moderating Influence of Behavioral Integrity on the Effect of Reporting Channel Administration and Bystander Awareness on Whistleblowing Intentions (March 17, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2937489
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies