Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antibribery Efforts in Brazil

Strategic Finance Volume 98 (9): 48-53, (2017)

Posted: 22 Mar 2017 Last revised: 30 Sep 2017

Maria T. Caban-Garcia

University of South Florida, St. Petersburg Campus

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

In 1997, Brazil signed the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Officials in International Business Transactions. Since then, the country has been working diligently to enact legislation to fight bribery in international business and has subjected itself to the peer review process of the Working Group of the OECD Convention.

Despite significant strides, there’s still a long way to go. Large protests in 2014 and 2015 against government corruption throughout Brazil added visibility and a sense of urgency to the country’s antibribery efforts, while a recent corruption case involving Brazil’s own national oil company Petrobas underscores that work remains in implementing and, more importantly, enforcing antibribery laws.

Keywords: Brazil, bribery, corruption, international business, ethics, OECD convention

JEL Classification: F 21, F23, G38, K42, L5, M40

Suggested Citation:

Caban-Garcia, Maria T., Antibribery Efforts in Brazil (March 1, 2017). Strategic Finance Volume 98 (9): 48-53, (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938230
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
861
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies