Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Open Source Repository, Discovering Resources for Forensic Accounting Education - An Exploratory Approach

Imperial Journal of Interdisciplinary Research (IJIR), Vol-3, Issue-3, 2017. ISSN # 2454-1362

20 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2017

Syed Ahmed

Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, Islamabad Chapter

Akbar Khattak

Indus University

Rezwan Ullah

Institute of Management Sciences - Peshawar

Date Written: March 24, 2017

Abstract

With the recent growing development of open education resources has opened up new avenues for education, learning and research. The open educational resources are offered universally with or without fee in the shape of courses or educational content regardless of credit hours or award of any degree or certificate. The typical societal paradigm, all leading world surveys indicate that we are living in a world, where white collar crimes and frauds are accelerating day by day. This has necessitated increasing the capacity of self-learners, students, educators and practitioners across the broad spectrum of jurisdictions confronting fraud must have an easy access to anti-fraud educational resources. The renowned universities around the world have responded to offer free or with nominal charges open anti-fraud education resources that can meet the modern day challenges of fraud, cyber-crime, and other white collar crimes.

Keywords: Open Source, Open Access, Open Design, Open Knowledge, Open Data, Open Content, Open Courseware

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Syed and Khattak, Akbar and Ullah, Rezwan, Open Source Repository, Discovering Resources for Forensic Accounting Education - An Exploratory Approach (March 24, 2017). Imperial Journal of Interdisciplinary Research (IJIR), Vol-3, Issue-3, 2017. ISSN # 2454-1362, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2940122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Forensic Procedures and Specialists: Useful Tools & Techniques Posted: 2005
Crossref
T A Buckhoff , R Schrader
The teaching of forensic accounting in the United States
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 146 Posted: 2000
T Caswell , S Henson , M Jenson , D Wiley
Open educational resources: Enabling universal education. The International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning , volume 9 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2008
D L Crumbley , G S Smith , N G Apostolou
A broad approach to forensic accounting is needed. The Value Examiner , p. 13 - 19 Posted: 2007-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,707
RANK
342,507
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies