Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Game Changer: Can Modifications to Audit Firm Communication Improve Auditors’ Actions in Response to Heightened Fraud Risk?

57 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2017 Last revised: 12 Aug 2021

Ashley A. Austin

University of Richmond

Tina Carpenter

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: August 12, 2021

Abstract

Regulators express concern over auditors’ failure to respond to fraud risks. Audit firms communicate the importance of remaining skeptical and alert for fraud, but busy auditors give these messages insufficient attention. Building on psychology theory, we develop an innovative intervention designed to improve audit firm communication by incorporating game-like elements. We expect game-like elements to pique auditors’ interest, deepen their cognitive processing, and enhance their awareness of important fraud concepts, making them more alert for fraud when they return to their work. We experimentally demonstrate that the intervention improves auditors’ awareness of important fraud concepts, and these benefits persist to improve auditors’ fraud detection actions. Importantly, auditors receiving communication that simulates current practice fail to respond to heightened fraud risk, confirming regulators’ concerns. In additional analyses, a model supports our intervention promoting deeper processing of the communication, enabling auditors’ subsequent recognition of heightened fraud risk and effective actions. Thus, our results contribute to theory and practice.

Keywords: financial reporting fraud; auditor judgment; gamification; cognitive processing; fraud detection

Suggested Citation:

Austin, Ashley A. and Carpenter, Tina, Game Changer: Can Modifications to Audit Firm Communication Improve Auditors’ Actions in Response to Heightened Fraud Risk? (August 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2951396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2951396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,256
RANK
174,026
2 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies