Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Experienced Auditors’ Detection of Deception in CEO Narratives

41 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2017 Last revised: 22 Jun 2017

Jessen L. Hobson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

William J. Mayew

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 20, 2017

Abstract

We experimentally study the deception detection capabilities of experienced auditors, using CEO narratives from earnings conference calls as case materials. We randomly assign narratives of fraud and non-fraud companies to auditors as well as the presence versus absence of an instruction explaining that cognitive dissonance in speech is helpful for detecting deception. We predict this instruction will weaken auditors’ learned tendency to overlook fraud cues. We find that auditors’ deception judgments are less accurate for fraud companies than for non-fraud companies, unless they receive this instruction. We also find that instructed auditors more extensively describe red flags for fraud companies and more accurately identify specific sentences in narratives that pertain to underlying frauds. These findings indicate that instructing experienced auditors to be alert for cognitive dissonance in CEO narratives can activate deception detection capabilities.

Keywords: auditors, financial misreporting, deception detection, conference calls

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hobson, Jessen L. and Mayew, William J. and Peecher, Mark E. and Venkatachalam, Mohan, Improving Experienced Auditors’ Detection of Deception in CEO Narratives (May 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2951973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2951973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Donald Lamar Ariail , J.P. Blair
Audit Inquiries and Deception Detection: Standards, Research, and Guidance
Pages: 32 Posted: 7 Jan 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S K.; G M Asare , A M Trompeter; , Wright
The Effect of Accountability and Time Budgets on Auditors' Testing Strategies
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 17 , p. 539 - 560 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Audit , Staff
Analysis of Audit Fees by Industry Sector
Audit Analytics Posted: 2014-01-07
M H.; K P Bazerman , G F Morgan; , Loewenstein
The Impossibility of Auditor Independence
Sloan Management Review , volume 38 , p. 89 - 94 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,047
RANK
216,668
10 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies