Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why are People Honest? Internal and External Motivations to Report Honestly

53 Pages Posted: 12 May 2017 Last revised: 27 May 2018

Pamela R. Murphy

Queen's University - Smith School of Business; Queen's University

Michael J. Wynes

University of Saskatchewan - Edwards School of Business

Till-Arne Hahn

Queen's University

Patricia Devine

University of Wisconsin - Madison

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 17, 2017

Abstract

We create and validate measures capturing internal and external motivations to report honestly as individual differences. Both measures have high levels of reliability, as well as convergent and divergent validity. To test their predictive validity, we conduct two experiments. In the first, MTurk participants have the opportunity and incentive to misreport with no immediate consequences, and in the second, participants with management experience report how they would act in a similar business context. We find that participants who are higher in internal motivations to report honestly are, indeed, more likely to report honestly than others. Partial evidence supports that people higher in external motivations report more honestly when we introduce management controls. We also provide evidence of unintended consequences; people who are higher in internal motivations actually misreport more under certain controls than they do absent those controls, consistent with self-determination theory. Results should be of interest to management and those charged with governance or oversight within an organization. Our measures are also useful to researchers investigating honest reporting by allowing them to identify, ex ante, individuals who wish to be honest versus appear honest.

Keywords: honesty, misreporting, scale development, experiment

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Pamela R. and Wynes, Michael J. and Hahn, Till-Arne and Devine, Patricia, Why are People Honest? Internal and External Motivations to Report Honestly (March 17, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2967548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2967548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M Altenburger
The effect of injunctive social norms and dissent on budget reporting honesty
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 9 - 31 Posted: 2017
D Ariely
The honest truth about dishonesty Posted: 2012
S Baiman , B Lewis
An experiment testing the behavioral equivalence of strategically equivalent employment contracts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1989
J E Barbuto , R W Scholl
Motivation sources inventory: Development and validation of new scales to measure an integrative taxonomy of motivation
Psychological Reports , volume 82 , issue 3 , p. 1011 - 1033 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,604
RANK
178,157
6 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies