Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SAP System As Vendor Fraud Detector

Posted: 15 May 2017 Last revised: 31 Mar 2018

Dr. T N Varma

Computer Society of India (CSI); National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jamshedpur

D. A. Khan

National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jamshedpur

Date Written: May 15, 2017

Abstract

In the last decade, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems are one of the most important IT developments, which improve productivity and profitability of the organisation. SAP is the leading market player in ERP systems. The vendor master file in SAP is used to store information about critical and sensitive data of vendors and this data is target of fraudsters. However, fraud is increasing and it becomes a risk to supply chain management. Hence, it is a requirement to plug the opportunity of fraudsters by help of system. The present paper presents a review of red flags of vendor master, different vendor fraud etc. Further, this study makes the development of a prototype model for detection of vendor fraud based on analysis of SAP security log data, segregations of duties and fraudulent scenarios.

Keywords: ERP, Fraud, SAP, Vendor

Suggested Citation:

Varma, Dr. T. N. and Varma, Dr. T. N. and Khan, D. A., SAP System As Vendor Fraud Detector (May 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2968308 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2968308
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,116
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies