Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Saga of Huber vs. The American Accounting Association: Forensic Accounting and the Law

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, 9(2), 870-879., July-December 2017

10 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2017 Last revised: 27 Sep 2017

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: May 18, 2017

Abstract

This article is a follow-up of my paper, “Does the American Accounting Association Exist? An Example of Public Document Research” (Huber, 2011) which chronicles the events that transpired from the publication of the paper in 2011 to the present. The article contributes to an understanding of the interplay between a forensic accounting investigation and the legal issues that a forensic accountant may encounter. The article also demonstrates the types of public document investigations that may have to be conducted both during and following a legal proceeding as part of litigation support.

When auditing corporate financial statements it is important for auditors to inspect corporate documents, including articles of incorporation and bylaws, in order to determine the scope of authorizations that officers and directors are granted. Articles of incorporation and bylaws are part of the auditor’s permanent file. (Puncel, 2008).

Forensic accountants likewise must inspect corporate documents such as articles of incorporation and bylaws. However, when conducting a forensic accounting investigation it is incumbent on a forensic accountant to also investigate publicly available documents for several reasons. First, subjects of the investigation may not be forthcoming in their production of documents or may not give candid responses to questions. They may withhold documents or be evasive in their response.

Second, a forensic accountant must corroborate and confirm all evidence obtained from the subject of investigation. This is often done by searching publicly available documents. Third, some states prohibit anyone without a private investigator’s license from conducting certain types of investigations. Searching public documents may be the only alternative for obtaining the desired information.

This rest of this article assumes a basic familiarity with the issues exposed in my previous paper.

Keywords: forensic accountng, American Accounting Association,

JEL Classification: K40, K41, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, The Saga of Huber vs. The American Accounting Association: Forensic Accounting and the Law (May 18, 2017). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, 9(2), 870-879., July-December 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2970636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
D Cherry
Motion to Vacate Judgment Mar 22 Posted: 2017
D L Crumbley , E Fenton , L D Heitger , S Smith
Forensic and investigative accounting Posted: 2017
J Drew
Private investigator licensing emerges as potential threat to CPAs
Journal of Accountancy Posted: 2013
W D Huber
Does the American Accounting Association exist? An example of public document research
Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Special Issue , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 67 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,355
RANK
467,197
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies