Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosures of Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing

16 Pages Posted: 22 May 2017 Last revised: 4 Oct 2023

Haitham Nobanee

Abu Dhabi University; University of Oxford; University of Liverpool

Nejla Ellili

Abu Dhabi University

Date Written: May 20, 2017

Abstract

This paper aims to develop an Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing (AMLATF) disclosure index and to measure the degree of AMLATF disclosure in both annual reports and websites of UK banks. This paper also aims to examine the impact of the degree of AMLATF disclosure on the UK bank’s performance using dynamic panel data two-steps robust system estimation. The results show that the AMLATF disclosures are at low level and also indicate that the AMLATF disclosures on the websites are higher than those in the UK banks’ annual reports. The results of the dynamic panel data two-steps robust system estimation reveal insignificant effect of the degree of AMLATF disclosures on the UK banking performance.

Keywords: Anti Money Laundering; Anti-Terrorist Financing; Voluntary Disclosures; Banking Performance; Dynamic Panel Data

JEL Classification: C33; G32; G34

Suggested Citation:

Nobanee, Haitham and Ellili, Nejla, Voluntary Disclosures of Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing (May 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971473
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
K Ahmad , Z M Mohamed
Investigation and prosecution of money laundering cases in Malaysia
Journal of Money Laundering and Control , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 429 Posted: 2012
Anti-Money
Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act
Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre Posted: 2006
Anti-Money
Laundering & Suspicious Cases Unit publications Posted: 2013
Crime Anti-Terrorism , Security Act ; London , U K Arellano , M Bover , O
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of error component models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
RANK
541,838
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies