Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of Forensic Tools to Detect Fraud: The Case of Toshiba

Posted: 5 Jun 2017

Ganga Bhavani

Manipal University of Dubai

Anupam Mehta

Institute of Management Technology

Date Written: January 4, 2017

Abstract

The primary goal of this study is to detect fraud in the financial statements of Toshiba Corporation using the Beneish Model, the Altman Z-Score and Benford’s Law. For eight years, Toshiba’s financial statement included unchecked fraud, raising the question of auditor competency. In addition to the auditors, other Toshiba stakeholders could have detected the fraud with the help of forensic accounting fraud-detection tools. This case study tests the efficacy of three selected forensic tools to detect Toshiba’s fraudulent financial statements (FFS). The results show that the Beneish Model was not to able to detect the fraud, but the Altman Z-Score and Benford’s Law clearly indicated that the company’s financial statements contained misstatements. Although the Beneish Model is very popular for predicting FFS, the results of the present study do not indicate its efficacy. In addition, the present study’s investigation of forensic tools highlights the importance of selecting the best tool(s) to detect financial misstatements. The study’s discussion of and suggestions regarding the efficacy and applicability of the tested tools provides useful direction to investors, financial auditors and forensic auditors when making policy decisions.

Keywords: fraudulent financial statements, forensic tools, financial misstatements, probabilistic model, fraud detection and examination

Suggested Citation:

Bhavani, Ganga and Mehta, Anupam, Application of Forensic Tools to Detect Fraud: The Case of Toshiba (January 4, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2980190
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,256
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies