Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Services and Fraud Cases; Perspective of the Forensic Accountant

8 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017 Last revised: 15 Jun 2018

Augustine Enofe

University of Benin

Ikechukwu Ochei

University of Benin

Chika Emecheta

University of Benin

Oghenefejiro Oyibo

University of Benin

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

The study examines the role of the forensic accountant’s litigation services in fraud cases. Data was gathered mainly by applying structured questionnaires to target sample for respondent, as well as interviewing respondents and noting their responses. The target population was legal practitioners and accountants, both of which we randomly selected; 20 respondent each based on our set criteria of knowledge of subject matter. Descriptive of the responses was first gotten to establish relationship, after which a reliability test was carried out on our instrument of measurement for which we got 0.78 using Cronbach’s Alpha, confirming the internal consistency of our instrument. We went further to establish effect using a one sample T-Test, which revealed that the forensic accountants litigation services does affect the adjudication of fraud cases. The study therefore recommends especially for developing countries like Nigeria, to fully standardize, structure and improve the use of forensic Accountants and in fraud cases as this will likely increase the chances of getting convictions.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Fraud Cases, Litigation, Prosecution, Expert witness, Special Masters, Expert consultant

Suggested Citation:

Enofe, Augustine and Ochei, Ikechukwu and Emecheta, Chika and Oyibo, Oghenefejiro, Litigation Services and Fraud Cases; Perspective of the Forensic Accountant (August 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2987638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2987638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Adeleh
Analysis of the necessity to develop the Forensic Accounting in Iran
Advances in Environmental Biology , volume 8 , issue 19 , p. 170 - 173 Posted: 2014
W S Albrecht , C O Albrecht , C C Albrecht , M F Zimbelman
Fraud Examination American Institute of Certified Public Accountant
Business valuation and Forensic & Litigation Services Section. Forensic Accounting-Fraud Investigation Posted: 2007
Forensic & Valuation Services Practice Aid. Serving as Expert Witness or Consultant Posted: 2014
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,071
RANK
330,062
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Courts eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies