Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging networks, systems and controls frameworks for cybersecurity curriculums and standards development

The Journal of Operational Risk, March 2018, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 77-99.

Posted: 19 Jun 2017 Last revised: 6 Apr 2022

Yogesh Malhotra

Global Risk Management Network, LLC; Amazon Web Services Partner

Date Written: April 13, 2017

Abstract

Applied Cybersecurity practices in the US private and public industry are transitioning to an overall focus on Cyber Risk Management. It is hence necessary to align IT-Cybersecurity professional association application standards and related educational curricula with emerging applications in practice. Current standards and educational curricula seem fragmented across Networks Protocols and Network Analysis Tools Frameworks, Systems and Networks Infrastructure Frameworks, and, Risk Management & Controls Policy Frameworks. This article develops an applied framework for aligning, integrating, and, streamlining standards and curricula across the above three levels to align them with needs of applied Risk Management practice. The Cyber Risk Management framework is developed with focus on VoIP networks which have been gaining central prominence across diverse industries such as global Banking and Finance over the past decade. Despite central role technologically and economically, sparse attention has been given to critical vulnerabilities described as the ‘weakest links’ in global Banking and Finance networks as evident from Cybersecurity and Penetration Testing. This article demonstrates the contribution of the proposed Cyber Risk Management framework in addressing such critical gaps in global Banking and Finance Cybersecurity and Information Assurance practices as an example while being extendable to multiple other industries such as Healthcare.

Accessible on the Journal Site: https://www.risk.net/journal-of-operational-risk/5462036/bridging-networks-systems-and-controls-frameworks-for-cybersecurity-curriculums-and-standards-development .

Related Conference Presentation: Toward Integrated Enterprise Risk Management, Model Risk Management & Cyber-Finance Risk Management: Bridging Networks, Systems and Controls Frameworks. Presented at: 2015 NY Cyber Security & Engineering Technology Association Conference, Oct. 22, 2015, Rochester Institute of Technology, Rosica Hall, NTID, Rochester, New York. (http://ssrn.com/abstract=2792629).

Related Accepted Conference Paper: Bridging Networks, Systems and Controls Frameworks for Cybersecurity Curricula & Standards Development, 2015 NY Cyber Security & Engineering Technology Association Conference, Oct. 22, 2015 Rochester Institute of Technology, Rosica Hall, NTID, Rochester, New York. (http://ssrn.com/abstract=2792636).

Keywords: Cyber Risk Management, Cybersecurity & Penetration Testing, Computer Science Curricula, Professional Standards of Practice, Networks Protocols & Network Analysis, Systems & Networks Infrastructure, Risk Management & Controls Policy, Innovative design and development Practices

Suggested Citation:

Malhotra, Yogesh, Bridging networks, systems and controls frameworks for cybersecurity curriculums and standards development (April 13, 2017). The Journal of Operational Risk, March 2018, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 77-99., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2988154
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies