Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Red Flag: A Mean for Preventing and Detecting Corporate Fraud

8 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017

Deepa Mangala

Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology - Haryana School of Business

Pooja Kumari

Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology - Haryana School of Business

Date Written: February 2015

Abstract

Corporate fraud is a matter of serious concern as it causes a challenge to the business organization in today’s dynamic environment. Fraud is a wilful act to obtain money, property or other advantages that recipients are not actually entitled to own. It occurs in all countries and affects all type of organizations irrespective of their size, place or industry type. Most of the fraud cases occur after some signals which are known as red flags. Red flags help in understanding root causes of fraud. The present research examines the red flags as a mean to the managers, auditors, and regulators for detection, prevention, and investigation of corporate fraud. Various research studies available from different national and international journals have been taken into consideration. The review reveals that management related characteristics, firm’s operating and financial environment and inadequate internal control system significantly affect the presence of fraud whereas industry environment related variables are insignificantly related with the occurrence of fraud.

Keywords: Corporate Fraud, Financial Statement Fraud, Red Flag, Fraud Prevention

Suggested Citation:

Mangala, Deepa and Kumari, Pooja, Red Flag: A Mean for Preventing and Detecting Corporate Fraud (February 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2988594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2988594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
B A Apostolou , J M Hassell , G E Summers
The relative importance of management fruad risk factors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 13 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2001
Crossref
B Apostolou , J M Hassell
An empirical examination of the sensitivity of yje analytic hierarchy process to departures from recommanded consistencies ratios
Mathematical and Computer Modelling , volume 17 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 163 - 170 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Report to Nations on Occupational Fruad and Abuse
Global Fraud Survey Posted: 2012
Report to Nations on Occupational Fruad and Abuse
Global Fraud Survey Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,938
RANK
240,980
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies