Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Framework of Applying Process Mining for Fraud Scheme Detection

26 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2017

Tiffany Chiu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Yunsen Wang

Montclair State University - School of Business

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: June 29, 2017

Abstract

Process mining has been used for auditing and internal control risk assessment as an audit analytical tool. This paper aims at providing a framework on how process mining can be applied to identify fraud schemes and assessing the riskiness of business processes. Specifically, the proposed framework captures how the patterns in process mining can be used to detect potentially fraudulent transactions. This paper contributes to the existing literature by associating notable variants/activities with potential fraud schemes and then assigning risk levels, which could be used as an automatic tool to test the fraud risk of every transaction. In addition, process mining enables auditors with the full population of event logs that can be used as non-financial information in fraud scheme detection.

Keywords: Process Mining; Financial Statement Fraud Detection; Fraud Schemes; Event Logs

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Tiffany and Wang, Yunsen and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., A Framework of Applying Process Mining for Fraud Scheme Detection (June 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2995286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
Accounting review , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M D Beneish
Incentives and penalties related to earnings overstatements that violate GAAP
The Accounting Review , volume 74 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 457 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J F Brazel , K L Jones , M F Zimbelman
Using nonfinancial measures to assess fraud risk
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1135 - 1166 Posted: 2009
Crossref
F A Bukhsh , H Weigand
REA & process mining: How to combine them for auditing?'. 6th International Workshop on Value Modeling and Business Ontology Posted: 2012
Load more
2 Citations
Li Zhang , Duo Pei , Miklos A. Vasarhelyi
Toward a New Business Reporting Model
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Tiffany Chiu , Mieke Julie Jans
Process Mining of Event Logs: A Case Study Evaluating Internal Control Effectiveness
43 Pages · Posted: 12 Mar 2018 · Downloads: 826
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,886
RANK
104,934
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies