Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How the European Commission and European Countries Fight VAT Fraud

57 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2017

Tomasz Michalik

CASE - Center for Social and Economic Research

Date Written: June 27, 2017

Abstract

The VAT gap, both on the European Union scale and that of particular member states (though not all of them) appeals to the imagination and awakens many extreme emotions. For it is difficult to accept that the level is so significant, and – what is more – in recent years it has narrowed quite insignificantly despite attempts to limit it.

In the popular understanding, this gap is quite often identified exclusively with the consequences of fraud, but it has many more component elements, many of which have nothing to do with abuse. Still, this doesn’t change the face that it is precisely fraud and abuse that constitute a particularly significant element of the VAT gap.

Keywords: Value Added Tax, tax fraud, tax evasion, tax non-compliance, tax avoidance, EU, Poland

JEL Classification: H26, H25

Suggested Citation:

Michalik, Tomasz, How the European Commission and European Countries Fight VAT Fraud (June 27, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996600 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2996600
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Absorpcja kredytów i pomocy zagranicznej w Polsce w latach Posted: 1989
Absorpcja zagranicznych kredytów inwestycyjnych w Polsce z perspektywy pożyczkodawców i pożyczkobiorców 3. Rozliczenia dewizowe z Rosją i innymi republikami b. ZSRR. Stan obecny i perspektywy
Rynkowe mechanizmy racjonalizacji użytkowania energii 5. Restrukturyzacja finansowa polskich przedsiębiorstw i banków 6. Sposoby finansowania inwestycji w telekomunikacji
Informacje O Bankach
Możliwości zastosowania ratingu
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
RANK
193,883
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies