Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Sarbanes-Oxley in Predicting Security Breaches

Posted: 25 Jul 2017

J. Christopher Westland

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Information and Decision Sciences

Date Written: July 22, 2017

Abstract

How effective is compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in identifying and eliminating firm threats from information systems breaches? We investigated publicly reported security breaches of internal controls in corporate systems to determine whether SOX assessments are information bearing with respect to breaches which can lead to materially significant losses and misstatements. The results of our tests varied significantly between breach types. SOX Section 404 adverse decisions on effectiveness of controls occurred in 100% of credit card data breaches and around 33% of insider breaches. SOX 404 audits provided a contrarian “effective” control decisions on 88% of situations where there was a control breach concerning a portable device. This suggests that employees are subverting particularly strict internal controls by using portable devices that can be carried outside the physical boundaries of the firm. We found that management and SOX 404 auditors do not general agree on the underlying internal control situation at any time; instead the SOX 404 team was likely to discover material weaknesses and “educate” management and internal audit teams about the importance of these control weaknesses. SOX attestations were poor at identifying control weaknesses from unintended disclosures, physical losses, hacking and malware, stationary devices, and situations where the cause of the breach was unknown. Hazard and occupancy structural models were constructed to extrapolate to a larger population; results showed that both SOX 302 and 404 section audits provided information germane to the frequency of breaches, with SOX 404 being three times as informative as section 302 reports. The hazard model found an expected 2.88% reduction in breaches when SOX 302 controls are effective; management “material weakness’ attestations provided no information in this structural model, whereas there would be around a 1% increase in breach occurrence when there are significant deficiencies. SOX 404 attestations were the most informative, and a negative SOX 404 attestation is projected to increase the frequency of breaches by around 8.5%. We concluded that the strength of internal controls attested in SOX reports is likely to be a significant factor in the occurrence of a breach at a firm in a specific period.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley, Security Breaches, Internal Control, Auditing

JEL Classification: M14, M45

Suggested Citation:

Westland, J. Christopher, The Information Content of Sarbanes-Oxley in Predicting Security Breaches (July 22, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3007148
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,102
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies