Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Offsite Detection of Insider Abuse and Bank Fraud among U.S. Failed Banks 1989-2015

43 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2017 Last revised: 8 Dec 2017

John O'Keefe

Government of the United States of America - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) ; Independent Consultant

Chiwon Yom

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 16, 2017

Abstract

We find evidence that material insider abuse and internal fraud were present in approximately 457 (37 percent) of the 1,237 U.S. failed commercial and mutual savings banks (hereafter, banks) between 1989 and 2015. Using a unique dataset of the incidence of insider abuse and internal fraud among U.S. failed banks we analyze the characteristics of failed banks with the ultimate goal of developing fraud detection models—parametric (logistic regression, Benford digit analysis) and non-parametric (neural networks). We obtain information on the incidence of insider abuse and internal fraud among failed banks from failing bank cases prepared for the FDIC Board of Directors, restitution orders (fines) supervisors assessed for bank employee fraud, and bond claims the FDIC made to recover fraud-related losses on failed banks. The supervisory data we use to quantify fraud among failed banks has not been used previously in published research and, we feel, provides more comprehensive information on fraud among failed banks than that available to academic researchers. Since fraudulent behavior lies outside the realm of rationale behavior modelled in economics, we develop a framework for internal bank fraud that provides rationale and support for our fraud detection models. This framework is based on previous studies of financial fraud and internal bank fraud in particular. We test this framework using regression analysis of the determinants of fraudulent behavior among failed banks between 1989 and 2015 and find that banks with insider abuse and fraud present overstated income and asset values, under-reported losses and consequently overstated net worth. The regression models of fraudulent failed banks provide information on the financial statement line items that can be used to identify fraud. We next use a recently developed second-order Benford digit test to identify those banks whose financial statements suggest tampering and purposeful misstatement. Our results suggest that material insider abuse and fraud at banks is detectable using Benford digit analysis of bank financial data for a period one-to-four years prior to failure. Unfortunately, we are unable to develop an accurate neural network model for fraud prediction.

Keywords: Bank Failure, Benford’s Law, Fraud Detection

JEL Classification: C45, G21, G28, M49

Suggested Citation:

O'Keefe, John and Yom, Chiwon, Offsite Detection of Insider Abuse and Bank Fraud among U.S. Failed Banks 1989-2015 (October 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3013174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3013174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
George A Akerlof , Paul M Romer
Looting: The Economic Underworld of Bankruptcy for Profit
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 2 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Steve W Albrecht
Fraud in Government Entities: The Perpetrators and the Types of Fraud
Government Finance Review , volume 7 , issue 6 , p. 27 - 30 Posted: 1991-12
Using Benford's Law to Detect Fraud. Sample Chapter from Course on Fraud Detection
Frank Benford
The Law on Anomalous Numbers
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society , volume 78 , issue 4 , p. 551 - 572 Posted: 1938-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,514
RANK
276,216
3 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies