Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Usage and Perceptions of Fraud Detection and Preventive Methods: Evidence from Mauritius

Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 87-96

10 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017

Subadar Agathee Ushad

University of Mauritius

Mootooganagen Ramen

University of Mauritius

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The aim of this study is to assess the extent to which junior auditors, senior auditors and professional accountants use fraud prevention and detection methods, and their opinions regarding the effectiveness of these methods in the Mauritian context. A questionnaire was designed and sent to ten most reputed companies including the Big 4 firms. 120 junior auditors, senior auditors and professional accountants responded successfully. The results shows that the techniques mostly adopted to combat fraud are bank reconciliation, staff rotation, cash reviews and password protection. However, virus protection, discovery sampling, reference checks on employees and vendor contract reviews were not often used. In contrast to other prior studies, methods which were frequently used on overall were the ones which have highest mean effectiveness ratings. This study sheds light on the least and most frequent fraud detection and prevention methods used in Mauritius by accounting practitioners. Organization should concentrate on creating an integrated strategy to combat and control any kind of potential risks instead of dealing with each issue separately. Also, organizations should weight up the significant intangible benefits against direct costs of combating fraud. Moreover, organizations should make sure that each abide to the policies and are well aware of the consequences of any malpractice. Finally, this study adds to the existing literature on perceptions of fraud detection methods. To the authors’ prior knowledge, this is the first formal study in the Mauritian context.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Internal Auditing, Fraud, Mauritius

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ushad, Subadar Agathee and Ramen, Mootooganagen, Usage and Perceptions of Fraud Detection and Preventive Methods: Evidence from Mauritius (2017). Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 87-96, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
ACFE's report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2012
S Andersen
Despite more rigorous compliance programs, corporate fraud still thrives
Corporate Legal Times , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2004-04
B Apostolou , J Hassell , S Webber , G Sumners
The relative importance of management fraud risk factors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 13 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M L Bhasin
Forensic Accounting and Auditing-Perspectives and Prospects, Accounting world magazine Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Peterson K Ozili
Forensic Accounting Research Around the World
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming · 42 Pages · Posted: 29 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 949
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,785
RANK
176,588
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies