Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Value Preferences on Whistleblowing Intentions of Accounting Professionals

25 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2017

Tara J. Shawver

King's College (Wilkes-Barre, PA)

Lynn H. Clements

Florida Southern College

Date Written: September 14, 2017

Abstract

This paper explores the relationship between an individual's values preferences and his or her ethical evaluations, moral judgments and ethical intentions to report three situations of occupational fraud. Specifically, we attempt to find evidence of one or more values that may influence a practicing accountant to identify ethical violations (i.e., ethical evaluation), to determine that the action should be reported (i.e., moral judgment to whistleblow) and/or to determine that the action would likely be reported (i.e., moral intention to whistleblow).

Our study was conducted by administering a survey to 387 accounting professionals attending state society-sponsored continuing education classes in a controlled experiment. Of the 387 attendees, 277 agreed to participate, providing a 72% response rate. We find that competence affects moral judgment to whistleblow for unethical actions. However, we find no support that the value preferences suggested by prior research impact ethical evaluations or the moral intention to whistleblow.

Keywords: Ethical decisions, value orientation preferences, whistleblowing judgment, whistleblowing intentions

JEL Classification: M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Shawver, Tara J. and Clements, Lynn H., The Impact of Value Preferences on Whistleblowing Intentions of Accounting Professionals (September 14, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3036960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3036960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2016
I P Akaah
Social inclusion as a marketing ethics correlate
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 11 , p. 599 - 608 Posted: 1992
Crossref
--- , D Lund
The influence of personal and organizational values on marketing professionals' ethical behavior
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 13 , p. 417 - 430 Posted: 1994
N T Feather
Values in adolescence
Handhook of Adolescent Psychology , p. 263 - 289 Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,543
RANK
357,435
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies