Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remembering Fraud in the Future: Investigating and Improving Auditors’ Attention to Fraud during Audit Testing

48 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2017 Last revised: 28 Oct 2022

Ashley A. Austin

University of Richmond

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 21, 2022

Abstract

During the testing stages of the audit, auditors must simultaneously divide their attention between: (1) performing the planned audit procedures and (2) remaining broadly skeptical and alert for fraud. Regulators note instances in which auditors do not take actions that effectively respond to fraud risks during these later stages, suggesting auditors may devote insufficient attention to fraud while they are busy executing the planned audit procedures. Leveraging prospective memory theory, I identify and test an intervention that can improve auditors’ attention to fraud. Indeed, I find that encouraging auditors to have implementation intentions about fraud (i.e., more detailed plans about when and how they will consider fraud) interacts with auditors’ perceived fraud task importance to increase auditors’ attention to fraud when this attention would otherwise be lower, making auditors more likely to take effective fraud actions. Importantly, these results also indicate that, even in a high fraud risk setting, auditors may devote insufficient attention to fraud while performing the planned audit procedures, confirming regulators’ concerns.

Keywords: fraud risk; skeptical actions; prospective memory; implementation intentions

Suggested Citation:

Austin, Ashley A., Remembering Fraud in the Future: Investigating and Improving Auditors’ Attention to Fraud during Audit Testing (October 21, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3038900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3038900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
M A Adriaanse , G Oettingen , P M Gollwitzer , E P Hennes , D T D De Ridder , J B F De Wit
When planning is not enough: Fighting unhealthy snacking habits by mental contrasting with implementation intentions (MCII)
European Journal of Social Psychology , volume 40 , issue 7 , p. 1277 - 1293 Posted: 2010
L M Andiola , J C Bedard , K D Westermann
It's not my fault! Insights into subordinate auditors' attributions and emotions following audit review
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2019
S K Asare , A M Wright
The effectiveness of alternative risk assessment and program planning tools in a fraud setting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 352 Posted: 2004
A A Austin , T D Carpenter
Game changer: Can modifications to audit firm communication improve auditors' actions in response to heightened fraud risk?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,710
RANK
422,747
2 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies