Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Fraud Detections Methods

13 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2017

Ashraf Elsayed

Northcentral University

Date Written: September 25, 2017

Abstract

The literature related to the detection of fraudulent financial reporting exhibited different methods employed to detect fraud. These methods include auditor’s analytical procedures, statistical models, digital, textual and data-mining models. These methods attempt to detect fraudulent financial reporting using financial and non-financial variables as proxies (indicators) for misrepresentation or omission of material facts (amount or disclosure) in the financial reporting. The misrepresentation and omission of material facts or disclosure are the two important indicators of fraudulent financial reporting (Goel & Gangolly, 2012). To detect financial statements fraud, researchers and practitioners employed quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods for both financial and non- financial variables as proxies/ indicators of fraud (red flags) using statistical analysis, digital, textual and data-mining analysis. The accuracy of a fraud-detection method varies for each method based on the type of variables employed, and the type of analysis applied.

In addition to auditor’s Analytical procedures, researchers and practitioners have developed multiple models (based on the quantitative and qualitative components of the company’s financial reporting) to predict financial statement fraud-risk and to classify companies financial reporting to fraudulent or non-fraudulent one. These methods include discriminant analysis models, statistical models (Dechow, 2011), digital analysis (Hsieh & Lin, 2013), data-mining models (Lin, Chiu, Huang, & Yen, 2015; Zhou & Kapoor, 2011), and textual (linguist) mining models (Throckmorton, Mayew, Venkatachalam, & Collins, 2015).

Suggested Citation:

Elsayed, Ashraf, Common Fraud Detections Methods (September 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3042827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,997
RANK
191,550
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies