Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anatomy of Fraud and Corruption in Nigeria: A Search for the Pandora Box and Panacea

Okoye, E.I. (2016). Anatomy of Fraud and Corruption in Nigeria: A Search for the Pandora Box and Panacea. 32nd Inaugural Lecture of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, Nigeria.

85 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2017

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 18, 2016

Abstract

Most of the earlier Inaugural Lectures in Accounting delivered in Nigeria Universities tended towards topics that are of immense significance to the Nigerian society at large. Besides, Inaugural Lecture in Accountancy usually revolves around thoughts the Lecturer has, alongside burning cum emerging issues and what he has done to address them. The choice of this topic: “Anatomy of fraud and Corruption in Nigeria: A Search for Pandora Box and Panacea” expresses my desire to follow the same tradition of raising issues that are not only significant in their academic content, but are also of great importance to the larger Nigerian society.

Keywords: Anatomy of Fraud, Corruption, Economic Development

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Anatomy of Fraud and Corruption in Nigeria: A Search for the Pandora Box and Panacea (August 18, 2016). Okoye, E.I. (2016). Anatomy of Fraud and Corruption in Nigeria: A Search for the Pandora Box and Panacea. 32nd Inaugural Lecture of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, Nigeria. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
B Adedipe
Corporate governance: Key factor in financial sector stability. Paper delivered at the 5th Annual Finance Correspondents and Business Editors Seminar held in Owerri , p. 26 - 28 Posted: 2004-01
F F Adegbie , A S Fakile
Economic and financial crime in Nigeria: Forensic accounting as antidote
British Journal of Arts and Social Sciences , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 50 Posted: 2012
A Allison
The Nigerian Revolution , p. 1966 - 1976 Posted: 1973
R O Anazodo
Civil Service in Nigeria, An Analysis of Its Bureaucratic Effectiveness Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,587
RANK
242,713
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies