Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critical Issues Affecting the Reliability and Admissibility of Handwriting Identification Opinion Evidence — How They Have Been Addressed (Or Not) Since the 2009 NAS Report, and How They Should Be Addressed Going Forward: A Document Examiner Tells All

48 Seton Hall L.R. 631 (2018)

87 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2022 Last revised: 6 Jun 2018

Andrew Sulner

Independent; Forensic Document Examinations, LLC

Date Written: October 27, 2017

Abstract

This article endeavors to improve awareness and enhance the legal and judicial responses to critically flawed evidence from handwriting experts by providing lawyers and trial judges with guidelines for determining when evidence from even presumptively well-qualified handwriting experts is unreliable and should be excluded. Part I discusses the need to replace the foundational tenets that have traditionally been espoused to support the discipline of forensic handwriting analysis with less absolutist statements derived from principles of neuroscience and human motor control theory. Part II provides an overview of the essential requirements for performing reliable forensic handwriting examinations, which lawyers and judges need to know and practitioners should adhere to. Part III seeks to illuminate the impact of cognitive bias on forensic handwriting analysis by discussing the biasing influences that can improperly taint and sway an examiner’s decision-making process and render unreliable his or her opinions and testimony, and by providing an overview of the various methods and techniques available for minimizing, if not eliminating, such adverse influences. Part IV examines the three different types of forensic casework peer review (administrative, technical and verification) and why testimony concerning any type of “review” performed by a non-testifying expert constitutes improper bolstering and/or inadmissible hearsay. Part V discusses the gatekeeping obligation imposed upon trial judges to screen and exclude unreliable evidence proffered by handwriting experts and what lawyers need to do, but all too often fail to do, to facilitate the judge’s role as gatekeeper. Several appellate court decisions are reviewed to illustrate instances of unreliable handwriting identification opinion evidence that escaped recognition and successful challenge at the trial level, as well as one recent district court case in which the proffered testimony of a handwriting expert was properly excluded by the gatekeeper. Finally, Part VI concludes with the author’s thoughts and perspectives on what can and should be done to further enhance the reliability of handwriting identification opinion evidence that is presented in civil and criminal cases, and what is needed to remedy the inequality of resources in criminal cases that effectively deprives defendants and their counsel of the ability to acquire the expertise needed to properly expose flaws and weaknesses in opinion evidence proffered by prosecution experts.

Keywords: evidence, handwriting identification, expert testimony, FRE 702, cognitive bias, reliability, admissibility, handwriting, signatures, forgery, forensic document examination, case reviews, best practice standards, gatekeeping, opinion language, flawed methodology, flawed opinions

Suggested Citation:

Sulner, Andrew, Critical Issues Affecting the Reliability and Admissibility of Handwriting Identification Opinion Evidence — How They Have Been Addressed (Or Not) Since the 2009 NAS Report, and How They Should Be Addressed Going Forward: A Document Examiner Tells All (October 27, 2017). 48 Seton Hall L.R. 631 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062250 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3062250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
SETON HALL LAW REVIEW , volume 48
B
648 2. Representative (Randomly Selected) Exemplars-Not Self-Serving Exemplars "Cherry Picked
Obtaining and Examining Handwriting Exemplars from All Persons of
A
Sources of Cognitive Bias That Can Unduly Influence the Outcome of Forensic Handwriting Examinations
Load more
1 Citations
Andrew Sulner
Critical Issues Affecting the Reliability and Admissibility of Handwriting Identification Opinion Evidence — How They Have Been Addressed (Or Not) Since the 2009 NAS Report, and How They Should Be Addressed Going Forward: A Document Examiner Tells All
48 Seton Hall L.R. 631 (2018) · 87 Pages · Posted: 2 Feb 2022 · Last revised: 2 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 576
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
576
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,323
RANK
108,729
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Criminal Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies