Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Fraud Schemes

7 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2017

Ashraf Elsayed

Northcentral University

Date Written: November 5, 2017

Abstract

The financial reporting fraud is still difficult to be detected because of a concealed and sophisticated nature of most fraud schemes, and a lack of effective fraud detection procedure. Fraud schemes have become more complex, sophisticated with the aid of advanced technology, and causes loss and damage to the financial community. A fraud scheme is the way (action) that fraudsters pursue to commit and conceal fraud through misrepresentation or omission of material facts (i.e. misrepresentation or omission of material amount, disclosure, or evidence in the financial reporting). Identifying fraud schemes is an important step for fraud detection. However, the identification of fraud schemes is still a challenging task because fraud schemes have become more complex and sophisticated with the aid of advanced technology and the concealment characteristic of fraud, which causes loss and damage to the financial community. The authoritative literature, SAS 99, 107, and International Standards on Auditing (ISA) 240, 315, and 330 require auditors to assess fraud risk factors (i.e. fraud schemes) and materiality in a client's financial statements. Then, auditors adjust their audit procedures (plan) to address identified fraud risk (schemes) in order to provide reasonable assurance whether the client's financial statements are free of material misstatements.

Suggested Citation:

Elsayed, Ashraf, Financial Reporting Fraud Schemes (November 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3065417 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3065417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A Abbasi , C Albrecht , A Vance , J Hansen
Metafraud: A meta-learning framework for detecting financial fraud
MIS Quart Manage Inf Syst MIS Quarterly: Management Information Systems , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1293 - 1327 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht , W S Albrecht , M Zimbleman
Fraud examination Posted: 2015
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2014
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,979
RANK
163,413
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies