Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Clients Choose Nonlocal Auditors?

55 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2017

Nathan G. Lundstrom

University of Kansas

Adam S. Yore

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 3, 2017

Abstract

We examine the client’s decision to engage a nonlocal auditor when close quality options are available. Clients seek nonlocal specialist auditors more often, but nonlocal engagements do not appear motivated by better pricing in distant markets. We show that, controlling for client-auditor distance, choosing a nonlocal auditor is associated with more restatements and litigation, suggesting that clients engage nonlocal auditors to avoid oversight. The effect of this choice on audit quality and client litigation hold in the context of a natural experiment where the cost of monitoring the client is decreased exogenously. Nonlocal engagements are ultimately detrimental to shareholder wealth.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Nonlocal, Restatements, Monitoring, Auditor Choice, Litigation, Audit Fees, Specialist Auditors

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lundstrom, Nathan G. and Yore, Adam S., Why Do Clients Choose Nonlocal Auditors? (November 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3065175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3065175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
L E Deangelo
Auditor size and audit quality
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 1981
Crossref
M Defond , D Erkens , J Zhang
Does PSM really eliminate the Big N audit quality effect? Forthcoming Management Science Posted: 2016
M Defond , J Francis , N Hallman
Awareness of SEC Enforcement and Auditor Reporting Decisions
Conditionally accepted at Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,485
RANK
269,796
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies