Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Indicators of the Financial Statement Fraud (Red Flags)

20 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2017

Ashraf Elsayed

Northcentral University

Date Written: November 19, 2017

Abstract

Red flags are symptoms or warning signals for fraud possibility. It relates to specific financial statement fraud schemes, and raise the awareness of fraud possibility but do not prove fraud existence. The red flags were classified based on the fraud triangle model to red flags related to pressure, opportunities, and rationalization. The red flags were also categorized to red flags related to analytical anomalies, accounting anomalies, internal control weaknesses, unusual behavior, extravagant lifestyle, and tips and complaints. The management fraud is rarely observed, but fraud symptoms/indicators (red flags) are observed; therefore, it can be used as a tool to detect fraud. The current study analyzed five potential fraud indicators: financial performance indices, financial health indices, management efficiency indices, accounting practices, and corporate governance indices; and tested their efficacies in predicting the probability of FSF and differentiating the fraudulent financial reporting from the non-fraudulent one.

Suggested Citation:

Elsayed, Ashraf, Indicators of the Financial Statement Fraud (Red Flags) (November 19, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3074187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3074187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
W S Albrecht
Fraud examination Posted: 2012
D B Agyei-Mensah
The determinants of financial ratio disclosures and quality: Evidence from an emerging market
Ijafr International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 5 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2014
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,914
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,621
RANK
4,350
2 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies