Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Morality Versus Sociology Theories: Explanation of Financial Reporting Fraud

9 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2017

Ashraf Elsayed

Northcentral University

Date Written: November 28, 2017

Abstract

Previous studies had attributed the management fraud to different reasons. Williams (2012) suggested that the management fraud is motivated by proposed unrealistic goals supported by attractive compensations. Frankel (2012) attributed the management fraud to CEO's unethical financial decisions and the complexity of information technology. The manager fraud behavior is influenced by several factors such as an intrapersonal (attitude, values, belief, and personality traits), social (social norms and controls), institutional (policies, laws, rules and regulations), and ethical factors (personal moral value and organization value/culture). In other words, the management fraud is the outcome of the management decision-making, which is influenced by managers’ personal values, personal beliefs, organizational factor, and social factors. To detect and prevent fraud, it is helpful to know its root causes, thereby manage the fraud risk exposure. Previous studies have linked the management fraud to various theoretical frameworks such as a differential association theory, a general stain theory, and business ethics theory.

Suggested Citation:

Elsayed, Ashraf, Morality Versus Sociology Theories: Explanation of Financial Reporting Fraud (November 28, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3078416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3078416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R Agnew
Reflection on "a revised strain theory of delinquency
Social Forces , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 38 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C C Dierksmeier
Kant on Virtue
Journal Of Business Ethics , volume 113 , issue 4 , p. 597 - 609 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Dormaels
Perceptions of corruption in Flanders: surveying citizens and police. A study on the influence of occupational differential association on perceptions of corruption
Policing & Society , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 596 - 621 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Dorminey , A S Fleming , M Kranacher , R A Riley
The evolution of fraud theory
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 555 - 579 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,511
RANK
357,435
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies