Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theorizing Financial Crimes As Moral Actions

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2017

Mark Lokanan

Royal Roads University

Date Written: December 5, 2017

Abstract

The paper maintains that all acts of financial crimes can be explained within a general theory of moral action and analyzed as such. In this regard, the paper presents such a theory – Situational Action Theory (SAT) – and argues that acts of financial crimes result from a perception-choice process involving rational deliberation and experimental habituation, themselves the outcomes of interactions between individuals and their environments. To examine this argument, the paper draws on two recent high profile fraud cases to critically discuss the extent to which these crimes should be meaningfully and innovatively analysed as moral actions and the moral context in which they occur. The findings indicate that the feature most relevant to a criminogenic is its moral context in relation to the opportunities and frictions that it generates. As such, environmental factors along with psychosocial processes of moral education become particularly important in the explanation of why certain moral contexts emerge in particular kinds of settings at a particular point in time. In this regard, SAT can be used as a powerful overarching framework to gain a more comprehensive understanding of peoples’ choice processes to breach moral rules and devise effective crime prevention strategies to combat fraud.

Keywords: Financial crimes, Situation Action Theory, Individual, Environment

JEL Classification: M41, D53, G01

Suggested Citation:

Lokanan, Mark, Theorizing Financial Crimes As Moral Actions (December 5, 2017). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3082724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
148 References
Acca
Fraud remains a growth industry, threatening companies large and small, but take heart: effective accounting practices can go a long way towards beating it Posted: 2016
Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No.99.Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 2002
W S Albrecht , C O Albrecht
Fraud examination and prevention Posted: 2004
W S Albrecht , C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht
Fraud and corporate executives: Agency, Stewardship and Broken Trust
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 130 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,418
RANK
444,118
2 Citations
148 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies