Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the Unconscious to Improve Detection of Managerial Deception

51 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2018 Last revised: 9 Jun 2020

Kristina M. Rennekamp

SC Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Kathy Rupar

Georgia Institute of Technology

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

Date Written: June 8, 2020

Abstract

Prior research finds that individuals struggle to detect deception at rates better than chance, and that this extends to accounting settings where users evaluate the veracity of management’s claims. However, these findings relate to settings where individuals make conscious judgments about whether they are observing a liar or truth-teller. Recent research suggests that detection of deception may be improved when individuals make unconscious judgments. We predict and find that (1) unconscious judgments reflect more activation of deception concepts following a deceptive conference call (compared to a setting without deception), (2) unconscious judgments improve detection of deception compared to conscious judgments, and (3) a period of unconscious thought prior to a conscious judgment about the veracity of management claims improves the accuracy of that judgment following a deceptive call. Combined, our results suggest a useful approach to analysts, auditors, and others who wish to improve their ability to detect managerial deception.

Keywords: unconscious thought, conscious judgment, deception detection, lexical decision task, implicit association test, managerial deception

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rennekamp, Kristina M. and Rupar, Kathy and Seybert, Nicholas, Using the Unconscious to Improve Detection of Managerial Deception (June 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3100299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3100299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2016
R Ball
Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J S.; E Barnhoorn , R Haasnoot; B , H Bocanegra; And , Van Steenbergen
QRTEngine: An Easy Solution for Running Online Reaction Time Experiments Using Qualtrics
Behavior Research Methods , volume 47 , p. 918 - 947 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C F.; K N Bond , M Kahler; And L , Paolicelli
The Miscommunication of Deception: An Adaptive Perspective
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology , volume 21 , p. 331 - 376 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,752
RANK
144,163
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies