Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservative Reporting and Securities Class Action Lawsuits

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 30, No. 1, 2016

Posted: 19 Jan 2018

Michael Ettredge

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Ying (Julie) Huang

University of Louisville

Weining Zhang

Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 9, 2015

Abstract

Positive accounting theory predicts that conservative financial reporting averts GAAP-based litigation. However, very little empirical evidence addresses whether and how accounting conservatism provides these benefits. Using a sample of lawsuits against public companies for alleged violations of US GAAP, we examine the association of accounting conservatism with subsequent initiation of lawsuits and with four litigation outcomes: market reactions to lawsuits, duration of lawsuits, dismissals of lawsuits, and penalties approved by courts. We find that firms with greater degrees of conditional conservatism experience more favorable consequences on all five dimensions of litigation occurrence and outcomes. Two measures of unconditional conservatism are not associated with the litigation variables. Our study provides new empirical evidence supporting Watts’ (2003a) litigation explanation for accounting conservatism.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, litigation, lawsuit dismissal, lawsuit settlement

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ettredge, Michael L. and Huang, Ying and Zhang, Weining, Conservative Reporting and Securities Class Action Lawsuits (October 9, 2015). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 30, No. 1, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101122
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,897
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies