Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Scandals: Beyond Corporate Governance

9th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2018

13 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2018 Last revised: 1 Mar 2018

Ifedapo Francis Awolowo

Sheffield Hallam University, Sheffield Business School

Nigel Garrow

Sheffield Hallam University - Sheffield Business School

Murray C. Clark

Sheffield Hallam University

Dora Chan

Sheffield Hallam University - Sheffield Business School

Date Written: January 12, 2018

Abstract

Accounting scandals are becoming perpetual in nature. They range from the ancient Mesopotamia, to the South Sea Bubble of 1720, to the famous Enron of 2001, down to Parmalat, Tesco and Toshiba of today. The series of accounting scandals that have occurred in the last two decades calls for a greater concern by the accounting profession. The accounting scandals that have occurred in this 21st century alone have shown that there is a need to look beyond corporate governance in the fight against financial deception. In this paper we argue that even in the face of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and other regulations around the world that are targeted towards effective corporate governance, accounting scandals have never ceased to occur. Most of the legislation that has been passed in recent times was targeted at corporate governance, forgetting the crucial role that audit play within the agency relationship. And whenever there is any revelation of fraudulent financial reporting, investors don’t ask who are the directors, but the first question they ask is who are the auditors? Hence, there is a need to improve audit quality by approaching it from a forensic accounting perspective in order, to reduce the incidence of financial statement frauds in this era of information revolution. Thus, restoring investors’ confidence back in the financial reporting process and corporate governance. In this paper, we propose a forensic accounting paradigm as a viable option for reducing accounting scandals, since this will compliment corporate governance systems.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Accounting, Auditng, Forensic accounting, Accounting sacndals, Financial Statement Fraud, Agency Theory

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M42, G32

Suggested Citation:

Awolowo, Ifedapo Francis and Garrow, Nigel and Clark, Murray C. and Chan, Dora, Accounting Scandals: Beyond Corporate Governance (January 12, 2018). 9th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3101057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3101057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Abdullahi , N Mansor
Understanding the Convergent and Divergent for Future Research
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 38 - 45 Posted: 2015
Report To The Nations On Occupational Fraud and Abuse
ACFE Posted: 2016
S Albrecht
Iconic Fraud Triangle Endures. Fighting a Culture of Fraud , volume 4 , p. 46 - 52 Posted: 2014-07
W S Albrecht , C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht
Fraud and Corporate Executives: Agency, Stewardship and Broken Trust
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 5 , p. 109 - 130 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,656
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,397
RANK
3,384
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies