Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Financial Analysts Care About FCPA Violations?

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Jan 2018 Last revised: 11 Nov 2019

Apostolos Ballas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Efthimios Demirakos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 16, 2018

Abstract

In this paper, we examine 12,954 equity research reports for 24 firms that are subject to enforcement actions by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). We search the text of the equity research reports for a number of FCPA-related keywords and identify 1,079 reports, where an analyst considers the SEC investigation an important issue. Our multivariate empirical analysis shows that financial analysts are more likely to be interested in incidents of FCPA violations, if the fines imposed to the firms by the SEC, DOJ (Department of Justice), and other U.S. agencies represent substantial components of their revenues, operating income, and market capitalization. We also find that the interest of financial analysts in these cases increases when the subject firms are relatively small with poor profitability. We offer illustrative examples of how financial analysts actually refer to the FCPA violations in their equity research reports. We believe that this study contributes to the relevant literature by highlighting the importance and implications of the FCPA statute for capital market participants.

Keywords: Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Bribery, Financial Analysts, and Equity Research Reports

JEL Classification: G24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ballas, Apostolos A. and Demirakos, Efthimios, Do Financial Analysts Care About FCPA Violations? (January 16, 2018). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3102952
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies