Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Financial Statements Fraud: The Evidence from Russia

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 32-45, 2017

14 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2018

Natalia Feruleva

National Research University Higher School of Economics, Students

Maria Shtefan

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Russian stakeholders of joint stock companies, which shares are not traded on a stock exchange, and limited liability companies need the effective instruments which enable them to detect the facts of financial statement fraud quickly because the financial statement remains the main source of information about the companies’ performance for them. Although Institute of Auditors is one of the most reliable tools which identify financial statement manipulations, the costs, connected with audit, are too high and, and as a result, stakeholders have to look for other instruments to distinguish fraudsters, which make an attempt to overestimate or underestimate net assets and financial results, from non-fraudsters. Mathematical model of the American researcher Messod Beneish can be considered as an example of such tools.

The general purpose of this paper is to identify whether it is possible, basing on the Beneish model, to create a new one, which enables to distinguish fraudulent from non-fraudulent financial statements reporting in Russia, and determine the accuracy level of fraud status forecasts made by using this model. In our research we are going to concentrate on identification of companies, which overestimate net assets and financial results.

Tо obtain the information on the financial ratios included in the model we use financial reports of Russian both non-traded joint stock companies and limited liability firms.

The conclusion can also be drawn that it is possible to develop the fraud detection probit model and linear model (integrated M-score index), which enabled stakeholders to identify fraud status correctly in 83% and 60% respectively.

Developing the model we include extra parameters, connected with growth rate of other income to sales ratio and an accounting policy of the company. It was found that fraud risk increases if the company chooses accounting policy according to which administrative costs are charged to core product expenses.

Keywords: Financial Statement Fraud, Fraud Detection, Net Assets Overestimation, Financial Results Overestimation, Russian Companies, Beneish Model

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Feruleva, Natalia and Shtefan, Maria, Detecting Financial Statements Fraud: The Evidence from Russia (2017). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 32-45, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A V Bukhvalov
Asimmetriya mezhdu insaiderami i autsaiderami: problema dvoistvennosti otsenki aktivov kompanii Posted: 2008
Russian
Journal of Management , issue 4 , p. 17 - 48
Crossref
Z Veshkurtseva
Kommentariy po teme makhinatsy s otchetnost'yu [Comments on the subject of fraud with reporting Posted: 2011
Bukhgalterov Klub Glavnykh
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,100
RANK
208,120
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies