Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a Forensic Accounting Paradigm: A Neo-Empiricist Research Agenda

British Academy of Management Conference Proceedings 2017

6 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2018

Ifedapo Francis Awolowo

Sheffield Hallam University, Sheffield Business School

Murray C. Clark

Sheffield Hallam University

Date Written: September 1, 2017

Abstract

The aim of the discussion paper is to position neo-empiricism as an appropriate theoretical perspective from which to conduct proposed research on how accountants, practitioners and regulators, make sense of the fraud prevention and detection process. It is argued that such a methodological stance provides a rigorous methodological basis whilst facilitating the flexibility of research questioning necessary for effective forensic accounting research. The paper discusses the nature of forensic accounting research and argues for the need to often adopt an objectivity engagement with our understanding of the social world. From this perspective neo-empiricism is argued as a meaningful alternative to positivism, whilst recognizing through the discussions the theoretical assumptions and limitations this approach makes.

Keywords: Forensic accounting, Neo-emipiricism, Research methodology, Qualitative Research

JEL Classification: B00, M00, M4, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Awolowo, Ifedapo Francis and Clark, Murray C., Towards a Forensic Accounting Paradigm: A Neo-Empiricist Research Agenda (September 1, 2017). British Academy of Management Conference Proceedings 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3116089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3116089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
M Alvesson , S Deetz
Doing Critical management Research Posted: 2000
Crossref
N Apostolon , L Crumbley
Fraud Surveys: Lessons for Forensic Accounting
Journal of Forensic Accounting , volume 4 , p. 103 - 118 Posted: 2005
James A. DiGabriele , Wm. Dennis Huber
Topics and Methods in Forensic Accounting Research
Accounting Research Journal, 28(1), 98-114. Pages: 29 Posted: 27 Nov 2014 Last revised: 14 Jun 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D
Topics and methods in forensic accounting research
Accounting Research Journal , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 98 - 114 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
945
RANK
517,938
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies