Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Deterrence When Shareholders Desire Fraud

U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 595

30 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2018 Last revised: 20 Jan 2021

James C. Spindler

University of Texas School of Law; McCombs School of Business, University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: November 17, 2017

Abstract

This article presents an economic model of corporate fraud arising from shareholder incentives. First, the model shows that a firm’s current shareholders have a preference for higher reported values. Current shareholders are, in expectation, net sellers of the firm’s shares; a higher reported value of the firm increases current shareholder returns in expectation.

Second, these preferences for inflationary misreporting translate into equilibrium misreporting behavior, which generates inefficiencies due to asymmetric information among secondary market traders. Informed traders undertake inefficient research costs, noise traders demand a discount in order to trade, and selling shareholders face deadweight illiquidity costs.

Third, in general, some ex post penalty for misreporting can eliminate misreporting incentives and result in a unique truth-telling (i.e., separating) equilibrium. This improves social welfare. With joint-welfare maximization among the firm’s initial stakeholders and unlimited liability, it does not matter on whom the penalty is placed.

Finally, the specific mechanism of firm-level (or “vicarious”) fines has desirable qualities from the perspective of administrative feasibility: the optimal fine is a simple function of observable market data. Compensation does not affect this formulation, yet compensation may be desirable in the event of incomplete deterrence because it reduces asymmetric information liquidity costs. The same liability formula applies for alternative targets of liability, such as the manager, and the approximate magnitude of the optimal fine remains the same; however, judgment-proofness and limited liability may militate toward firm-level fines.

Keywords: securities, fraud, shareholders, 10b-5, fraud on the market, private litigation, class action

JEL Classification: K22, G30, M48

Suggested Citation:

Spindler, James C., Optimal Deterrence When Shareholders Desire Fraud (November 17, 2017). U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 595, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3121230 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3121230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
= Unr , ½pr
1|1')(1 -p2(1')) + Pr(0|1')
Rearranging equation (29), the requisite liability level to allow pooling (in terms of market prices) is the same as under separation
Notably, the requisite liability l is the same, in terms of market prices, as in the separating case. (Note, however, that the prices themselves will generally be different in the separating in the pooling cases.) While the p2 and p3 terms are themselves functions of the level of liability and transfer, it is directly observable in the form of the market price. This result is independent of the fraction θ of the fine l that is used to fund transfers t to defrauded purchasers -that is, the requisite liability for fraud deterrence is given by the same simple formula involving observable market prices
Equation (32) presents the requisite liability for eliminating pooling as an equilibrium
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,703
RANK
499,012
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies