Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Forensic Accounting Application on Financial Crime Detection in Deposit Money Banks in Anambra State

International Journal of Advanced Engineering and Management Research, 2(6), 2350-2379, 2017

30 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2018

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Ezechukwu Beatrice

Federal Polytechnic, Oko

Obi Chinyere

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This research set out to find out the effect of forensic accounting application on the detection of financial crime in deposit money deposit banks in Anambra State. The survey approach was adopted for this study. Out of a population of 5 key officials in 11 commercial banks, which gives a total of 55 key officials, a sample size of 35 was selected using Taro Yamane formula. Three hypotheses were formulated and tested in the course of the research. The three hypotheses were tested using the t-test statistics. The study revealed that forensic accounting is effective in reducing financial crimes. Upon the findings, the study recommended among others that auditors should be required to introduce some elements of forensic accounting techniques into the average financial statement audit to increase the effectiveness of the audit, there be certain standard methodology and procedures to guide forensic accounting assignments and to act as a reference for practice reviews especially in cases of dispute with client.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Financial Crime, Data Mining, Rogue Trading

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M43

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Beatrice, Ezechukwu and Obi, Juliet, Effect of Forensic Accounting Application on Financial Crime Detection in Deposit Money Banks in Anambra State (2017). International Journal of Advanced Engineering and Management Research, 2(6), 2350-2379, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3125610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
N N Amahalu , M C Abiahu , J C Obi , E C Okika
Effect of risk-based audit on quality internal control of selected deposit money banks in Nigeria
The Journal of International Accounting , issue 2 , p. 58 - 68 Posted: 2016
N N Amahalu , M F C Abiahu , C L Nweze , J C Obi
Effect of corporate governance on borrowing cost of quoted brewery firms in Nigeria
EPH International Journal of Business & Management Science , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 31 - 57 Posted: 2010
N N Amahalu , M F C Abiahu , E C Okika , J C Obi
Effect of money laundering on Nigerian economy
Research Journal of Financial Sustainability Reporting , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2016
U Agbionu
Research in business studies: principles and processes
Clemenddy Educational Services Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
969
RANK
124,488
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies