Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blue-Collar Crime and Finance

82 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2018 Last revised: 11 Jan 2023

Alejandro Bernales

Universidad de Chile

Diether W. Beuermann

University of Maryland - College Park; Durham Business School; Inter-American Development Bank (IADB); Universidad de Lima - Facultad de Economia

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Olid

University of Chile

Date Written: December 24, 2022

Abstract

We examine the reputational and persistent costs of blue-collar crime against firms. Blue-collar crime negatively affects firms' reputation regarding credit risk, which persists over time and worsens future access to, and the conditions of, external financing (even if firms are financially healthy again in the future, and even if current crime events are unrelated to future crime incidence). Blue-collar crime does not need to be disclosed to lenders, but revelation is more likely among firms with more employees and in smaller communities, due to potential information leakages. However, the CEO's work experience mitigates the impact of blue-collar crime on future financing conditions.

Keywords: Blue-Collar Crime, External Financing, Credit Risk, Information Leakages, CEO's Work Experience.

JEL Classification: G14, G21, G32, K42, 016.

Suggested Citation:

Bernales, Alejandro and Beuermann, Diether Wolfgang and Cumming, Douglas J. and Olid, Christian, Blue-Collar Crime and Finance (December 24, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3127862 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3127862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
P Akey , S Lewellen , I Liskovich , C Schiller
Hacking corporate reputations
Rotman School of Management Working Paper Posted: 2021
S Armitage , W Hou , X Liu , C Wang
Law, Endowment and Inequality in Access to Finance
Finance Research Letters Posted: 2021
K Arrow
The economic implications of learning by doing
Review of Economic Studies , volume 29 , p. 155 - 173 Posted: 1962
J Ashton , T Burnett , I Diaz-Rainey , P Ormosi
Known unknowns: How much financial misconduct is detected and deterred?
Journal of International Financial Markets , volume 74 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,284
RANK
560,264
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies