Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Reporting Readability and Regulatory Review Risk

Baltic Journal of Management, Vol. 13 No. 4, pp. 488-507, 2018

Posted: 28 Dec 2019

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Ameneh Bazrafshan

Imam Reza International University

Date Written: April 1, 2018

Abstract

Purpose — The regulatory review process imposes significant costs on companies. Therefore, managers try to find ways to avoid the regulatory review risk. This paper investigates whether corporate reporting readability reduces the regulatory review risk.

Design/methodology/approach — This study measures the corporate reporting readability using the Fog Index. It measures the regulatory review risk using the probability of receiving a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Organization of Iran.

Findings — The findings reveal that corporate reporting readability reduces the regulatory review risk, after controlling for the factors that affect the regulatory review risk.

Originality/value — The current paper identifies an easy strategy for managers to mitigate one of the important risks faced by companies. Thus, the results will be of interest to managers, audit committees, and stakeholders involved in the regulatory review process.

Keywords: Accounting; Corporate Reporting Readability, Managers, Regulatory Review Risk, Comment Letters, Processing Fluency Theory

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Hesarzadeh, Reza and Bazrafshan, Ameneh, Corporate Reporting Readability and Regulatory Review Risk (April 1, 2018). Baltic Journal of Management, Vol. 13 No. 4, pp. 488-507, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129977
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
587
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies