Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
E-Government as an Anti-Corruption Tool: Experience From Indonesia

Acc. Fin. Review 2 (4) 32 – 39 (2017)

8 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2018

Dyah Setyaningrum

University of Indonesia (UI)

Date Written: December 5, 2017

Abstract

Objective – Transparency is promoted as one of the most important measures against corruption. E-government provides greater access to information that can subsequently increase transparency, accountability, and be used as an effective anti-corruption tool. The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between e-government and corruption.

Methodology/Technique – To gain more insight, we also investigate the effect of e-procurement as one of the egovernment initiatives for tackling corruption. We use observations from local government (districts and cities) in Indonesia during the period 2012–2015.

Findings – The results show that e-government implementation is associated with lower corruption. E-government reduces corruption by removing discretion, thereby curbing the opportunities for arbitrary action that often result in corruption.

Novelty – Moreover, the results also show that adopting e-procurement increases transparency and accountability through increased competition among bidders and enables real-time access to information, which ultimately reduces corruption in public procurement.

Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: Accountability, Corruption, E-Government, E-Procurement, Transparency

JEL Classification: M10, M48

Suggested Citation:

Setyaningrum, Dyah, E-Government as an Anti-Corruption Tool: Experience From Indonesia (December 5, 2017). Acc. Fin. Review 2 (4) 32 – 39 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
T B Andersen
E-Government as an anti-corruption strategy
Information Economics and Policy , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 201 - 210 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Al-Hussaini , Al-Mutairi , N M Naser , Thuwaini , F Shebiab
The impact of adopting e-government on reduce administrative corruption: empirical evidence from kuwait's public sector
Academy of Contemporary Research Journal , p. 31 - 43 Posted: 2013
M S B Ali , M Mdhillat
Does Corruption Impede International Trade? New evidence from The EU and the MENA Countries
Journal of Economic Cooperation and Development , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 107 - 120 Posted: 2015
Elvis Asorwoe
Can E-Government Mitigate Administrative Corruption? An Empirical study into the Potential Role of E-Government in Eradicating Administrative Corruption in Sub-Saharan Africa
Global Journal of Interdisciplinary Social Sciences , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 41 - 47 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
923
RANK
469,965
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies