Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Could the Collapse of UT Bank Been Anticipated Sooner?

17 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2018

Caesar Simpson

BlueCrest College

Date Written: February 28, 2018

Abstract

This paper analysed the bankruptcy of UT Bank on 14th August 2017 – a Ghanaian bank which was listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange. The objective was to determine whether the shocked collapse of the bank could have been envisaged sooner. After employing quantitative tools such as Gross Margin Test and Modified Altman’s Z-score, this paper established that, it would have been possible to foresee the possible collapse of the bank as early as 2012 to 2015.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Corporate Governance, Financial Crisis, Liquidity and Credit Risk

Suggested Citation:

Simpson, Caesar, Could the Collapse of UT Bank Been Anticipated Sooner? (February 28, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3131781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3131781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J Afolabi , J
The high and low of Ghana's banking system; UT and Capital bank collapse Posted: 2017
B Amihere , P
Stock Exchansuspge ends UT Bank , p. 8 - 14 Posted: 2017
C Andoh
Collapse of UT Bank... Shareholders' fate in the balance Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE)
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2008
Report to the Nation on Occupational Bank of Ghana (BOG)
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,700
RANK
388,737
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies