Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advances and Issues in Fraud Research: A Commentary

Journal of Financial Crime, Vol 27, No. 1. (2020)

15 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2018 Last revised: 22 Jan 2020

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This article discuss some observations in the forensic accounting-based fraud literature, and identify the recent advances and other important issues in the literature that are worth noting. The main message in this commentary article is that fraud is complicated, and fraud complexity can significantly influence the way we undertake research in the forensic accounting and fraud literature. The practical implication is that forensic accountants, fraud examiners, and forensic accounting researchers should incorporate into their practice the complexity of fraud regardless of whether they follow an empirical, experimental, exploratory, analytical or critical approach to detect or investigate fraud.

Keywords: Fraud; Forensic Accounting; Fraud Detection; Financial Reporting; Data Mining; Forensic; Accounting Education; Banking

JEL Classification: M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Advances and Issues in Fraud Research: A Commentary (2020). Journal of Financial Crime, Vol 27, No. 1. (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3132210 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3132210
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
L J Abbott , Y Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , p. 55 - 68 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
W Albrecht , C Albrecht , C Albrecht , M Zimbelman
Fraud examination, Cengage Learning Posted: 2008
Crossref
U L Anderson , L Koonce
Explanation as a method for evaluating clientsuggested causes in analytical procedures
Auditing , volume 14 , issue 2 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,120
RANK
184,612
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies