Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Halo Effect in the Presence of Fraud Risk Factors: An Examination of Auditor Skepticism

44 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2018

Kevan L. Jensen

University of Oklahoma - John T. Steed School of Accounting

Mark Smith

University of Oklahoma - Michael F. Price College of Business; University of North Florida

Date Written: December 15, 2016

Abstract

This study is the first stage of a multi part study examining halo effects among auditors. We specifically examine two questions: (1) Are auditors susceptible to halo effects, and (2) Does the presence of fraud risk factors mitigate halo effects by increasing auditor objectivity and skepticism? The latter question is motivated by SAS 99 which specifically links the concepts of fraud risk and auditor skepticism. Results of a single experiment are both striking and unexpected. Despite successful halo manipulations, judgments by student participants did not exhibit halo effects in the absence of fraud risk factors, but did exhibit significant halo effects in the presence of fraud risk factors. These results suggest that auditors may not be subject to halo effects directly, but become subject to halo effects when processing other information/evidence.

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Kevan L. and Smith, Mark and Smith, Mark, The Halo Effect in the Presence of Fraud Risk Factors: An Examination of Auditor Skepticism (December 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3135339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3135339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J G Birnberg
A proposed framework for behavioral accounting research
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Professional Judgment Resource Posted: 2014
W H Cooper
Ubiquitous halo
Psychological bulletin , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 218 - 244 Posted: 1981
Crossref
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,396
RANK
227,558
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies