Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Subsidiary Disclosure

49 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2018 Last revised: 14 Mar 2018

Scott Dyreng

Duke University - Accounting

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Patrick Langetieg

Government of the United States of America - Internal Revenue Service (IRS)

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

We use data multinational firms provide to the Internal Revenue Service regarding their foreign subsidiary locations to explore whether some firms fail to publicly disclose subsidiaries in some countries, even when the subsidiaries are significant and should be disclosed per Security and Exchange Commission rules. The propensity to omit significant subsidiaries is especially strong when subsidiaries are in tax havens and when the firm is more highly scrutinized by the media, suggesting firms believe there are reputational costs associated with operations in tax havens. Additionally, we find evidence that firms omitting significant subsidiaries are more likely to misstate their financial results and are more likely to receive an SEC comment letter as compared to firms that do not omit significant subsidiaries. These results suggest that subsidiary omission may be indicative of firms’ broader disclosure and accounting choices.

Keywords: financial disclosure, corporate tax, reputational costs of tax planning

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Dyreng, Scott and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Langetieg, Patrick and Wilde, Jaron H., Strategic Subsidiary Disclosure (March 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3137138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3137138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
723
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,795
RANK
81,142
70 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies