Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Evidential Reasoning Technology to Enhance the Audit Quality Assurance Inspection Process

Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting. 2018, DOI: 10.2308/jeta-52083

Posted: 24 Mar 2018 Last revised: 28 Mar 2018

Theodore J. Mock

University of Southern California; University of California, Riverside

Srinivasan Ragothaman

University of South Dakota

Rajendra P. Srivastava

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Date Written: March 18, 2018

Abstract

This paper considers the use of an emerging technology based on formal evidential reasoning to help audit quality assurers conduct higher quality inspections of audit engagements. Although the ideas should be relevant to the inspection process in general, we focus on PCAOB stated objectives and procedures and, as an illustration, the inspection of Satyam Computer Services Limited.

To enhance audit quality assurance (AQA), we propose and illustrate a portion of a prototype technology which uses formal evidential reasoning to help assess audit quality. The use of a formal evidential reasoning model and a structured process should provide better documented, and more precise, consistent and rigorous AQA assessments of risk, of the sufficiency and competency of audit evidence collected and of various auditor judgments. The potential of this technology is illustrated by evaluating the PCAOB inspection of Satyam Computer Services Limited, in particular the assessment of the risk of financial statement misstatement due to either unintentional or intentional misstatements. The illustration suggests that the proposed technology is likely to facilitate an enhanced inspection of audit quality. By implication, we assert that use of such technology will result in other enhancements to AQA.

Keywords: PCAOB Inspection, Audit Quality Assurance, Fraud Risk, Evidential Reasoning, Satyam Fraud, Assurance Services

Suggested Citation:

Mock, Theodore J. and Mock, Theodore J. and Ragothaman, Srinivasan and Srivastava, Rajendra Prasad, Using Evidential Reasoning Technology to Enhance the Audit Quality Assurance Inspection Process (March 18, 2018). Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting. 2018, DOI: 10.2308/jeta-52083 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3144728
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies