Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Substance Abuse and Workplace Fraud: Evidence from Physicians

46 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2018 Last revised: 23 Jun 2021

Melanie Millar

Baylor University

Roger M. White

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Xin Zheng

University of British Columbia, Sauder School of Business, Students

Date Written: June 22, 2021

Abstract

We examine the relation between worker substance abuse and workplace fraud in a sample of medical doctors. Relative to their peers, we observe that doctors engaging in substance abuse are between 50 and 100 times more likely to commit fraud in a given year. This result is consistent with research suggesting that substance abuse both creates financial pressures and impairs the functioning of cognitive self-regulatory mechanisms. Our results are robust in within-subject tests and between-subject tests, as well as in tests using instrumental variables that exploit exogeneous variation in the state-level availability of opioids, a commonly abused substance.

Keywords: Substance Abuse, Fraud, Behavioral Finance, Impulsivity, Delay Discounting

JEL Classification: K42, G40, M12, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Millar, Melanie and White, Roger M. and Zheng, Xin, Substance Abuse and Workplace Fraud: Evidence from Physicians (June 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3147938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
T E Adamson , D C Baldwin , T J Sheehan , A A Oppenberg
Characteristics of surgeons with high and low malpractice claims rates
Western Journal of Medicine , volume 166 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 44 Posted: 1997
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial Overconfidence and Accounting Conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
AICPA)
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
Arizona Department of Health Services. 2017. 50 State Review on Opioid Related Policy
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,912
RANK
198,235
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies