Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Content of Annual Earnings Announcements: Evidence from Moroccan Stock Market

13 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2018

Khalid Elouafa

Cadi Ayyad University

Date Written: July 1, 2016

Abstract

The objective of our work is to study the information content of accounting results of listed companies in the Casablanca Stock Exchange. Applying the methodology adopted by Beaver (1968), we analyze the market reaction, in terms of changes in prices and volumes around the announcement of annual earnings. Our study focuses on 75 companies listed on the Casablanca Stock Exchange for the period [2010 to 2015]. It accounts for the presence of an informational content for the accounting results around the announcement date. Thus, this confirms the hypothesis of financial market efficiency in its semi-strong form (Fama, 1970) and the results obtained in other financial markets (US, French, Chinese ...).

Keywords: Event study; Information content; Earnings announcements; Market reaction

Suggested Citation:

Elouafa, Khalid, Information Content of Annual Earnings Announcements: Evidence from Moroccan Stock Market (July 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3147633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
W Beaver
The Information Content of Annual Earnings Announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
Crossref
P Brown
The impact of the annual net profit report on the stock market. The Australian Accountant , p. 277 - 283 Posted: 1970
D Collins , M Pincus , H Xie
Equity valuation and negative earnings: The role of book value of equity. Working paper Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,418
RANK
649,230
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies