Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Information Technology Investments and Audit Risk

Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 30, No. 1, Spring 2016

24 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2018

Shipeng Han

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Ling Xue

University of Georgia - Department of Management Information Systems

Joseph H. Zhang

University of Memphis

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Advances in information technology (IT) have changed the way that companies conduct business, prepare their financial statements, and have their financial statements audited. On one hand, IT decreases audit risk by improving operation and internal control effectiveness, which may decrease inherent and internal control risk. On the other hand, the complexity of IT introduces unconventional risks for companies and their auditors, especially by creating challenges for auditors when auditing the effectiveness of internal controls and detecting accounting irregularities. Thus, the relationship between clients’ IT investments and audit risk deserves research attention. Using IT data of U.S. firms from 2000 to 2009, we find that IT investments are positively related to audit fees (and abnormal audit fees), the probability of auditors’ issuance of a going-concern opinion, and the likelihood of auditors’ Type II errors. Furthermore, we find that auditor tenure moderates the relationship between IT investments and audit fees due to the learning effect.

Keywords: information technology investments, audit risk, audit fees, auditor tenure

Suggested Citation:

Han, Shipeng and Rezaee, Zabihollah and Xue, Ling and Zhang, Joseph H., The Association between Information Technology Investments and Audit Risk (2016). Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 30, No. 1, Spring 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3148690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
The Effect of Technology on the Auditor's Consideration of Internal Control in a Financial Statement Audit
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 94 Posted: 2001
Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No Posted: 2007
North America Top Technology Initiatives Survey Results Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,153
RANK
131,892
3 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies