Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud Detection in Supply Chain Using Benford Distribution

International Journal of Research in Management, Vol. 5, Issue 2, 2012

7 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2018

Dr. T N Varma

Computer Society of India (CSI); National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jamshedpur

DA Khan

National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jamshedpur

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

Fraud occurred due to intentionally manipulated data in complex and dynamic supply chains cyberspace be a complicated task for detecting or auditing agencies. Although prevention from vulnerable manipulation is the best way to reduce frauds. The application of Excel sheet as decision supporting tools, leads to identify abnormally mismatch or hidden pattern of data and its depth analysis helps these agencies to scientifically examine the feasibility of implementing one ‘trust-but-verify’ method in supply chain network using a probability distribution called Benford’s distribution within a short span of time to detect and prevent fraudulent transactions. This paper demonstrates, how to use Excel Sheet to perform Benford distribution statistical test as effective tool for locating red flags in suspected data from decision-making data-set of supply chain network.

Keywords: Benford Distribution, Fraud, Supply Chain Management

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Varma, Dr. T. N. and Varma, Dr. T. N. and Khan, DA, Fraud Detection in Supply Chain Using Benford Distribution (August 1, 2012). International Journal of Research in Management, Vol. 5, Issue 2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3150290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Frank Benford
The Law of Anomalous Numbers
The American Philosophical , volume 78 , p. 551 - 72 Posted: 1938-07-15
Arno Berger , Theodore P Hill
Newton's Method Obeys Benford's Law
International Journal of Research in management , volume 114 , issue 7 , p. 588 - 60 Posted: 2007
Crossref
. L Dr , Kailasam
Benford Distribution -An Effective Audit Tool
The Chartered Accountant , p. 716 - 720 Posted: 2011-11
Cindy Durtschi , William Hillison , Carl Pacini
The Effective Use of Benford's Law to Assist in Detective Fraud in Accounting Data
UIC. Journal of Forensic Accounting , p. 17 - 34 Posted: 2004-08-01
Load more
1 Citations
Dr. T. N. Varma , D. A. Khan
Information Technology in Supply Chain Management
Journal of Supply Chain Management Systems Volume 3 Issue 3 July 2014 · 12 Pages · Posted: 21 Feb 2017 · Downloads: 9,540
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,290
RANK
325,744
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Supply Chain Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies