Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting: A Tool for Fraud Detection and Prevention in the Public Sector. (A Study of Selected Ministries in Kogi State)

Okoye, E.I. & Gbegi, D.O. (2013). Forensic Accounting: A Tool for Fraud Detection and Prevention in the Public Sector. (A Study of Selected Ministries in Kogi State). International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences. 3(3): 1-19, 2013

19 Pages Posted: 2 May 2018

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

D.O. Gbegi

Kogi State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 15, 2013

Abstract

The contribution/importance of Professional Forensic Accountant cannot be over emphasized, whether to the public sector or to the private sector. The purpose of this study is to examine forensic accounting as a tool for fraud detection and prevention in the public sector organizations with particular reference to Kogi State. Both primary and secondary sources of data were appropriately used. 370 questionnaires were administered to staff of five (5) selected ministries in Kogi State of Nigeria, along with interviews conducted with those ministries out of which 350 were filled and returned. Tables and simple percentages were used to analyze the data. The statistical tool used to test hypotheses was Analysis Of Variance (ANOVA). Among the findings was that the use of Forensic Accounting do significantly reduces the occurrence of fraud cases in the public sector, and that there is significance difference between Professional Forensic Accountants and Traditional External Auditors and therefore the use of Forensic Accountants can help better in detecting and preventing fraud cases in the public sector organizations. The research therefore recommended that Forensic Accountants be replaced with the external auditors in Kogi State, proper training and retraining on Forensic accounting should be provided to staff of Kogi State and proper adherence to accounting and auditing standards should be followed.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Fraud, Fraud Detection, Fraud Prevention, External Auditors

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Gbegi, D.O., Forensic Accounting: A Tool for Fraud Detection and Prevention in the Public Sector. (A Study of Selected Ministries in Kogi State) (March 15, 2013). Okoye, E.I. & Gbegi, D.O. (2013). Forensic Accounting: A Tool for Fraud Detection and Prevention in the Public Sector. (A Study of Selected Ministries in Kogi State). International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences. 3(3): 1-19, 2013 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 2222 - 6990 Posted: 2013-03
Crossref
E C Osuala
Introduction to Research Methodology, 2 nd ed. Nigeria, African-First Publishers Limited Statement of Auditing Standards 99 JOURNALS Posted: 2005
N Arnoff , C J Sue
Forensic Accountant's Role and Expert before and during Trial
New York Journal Posted: 2001
J L Courlber
Forensic Accountants: The Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOA), and Audit Standards
The Forensic Examiner , volume 13 , issue 2 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,987
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,056
RANK
4,262
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies