Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Fraud Mitigation in the Nigerian Banking Industry

Accounting and Taxation Review 2017; 1(1):177-195

19 Pages Posted: 2 May 2018

Osarenren Aigienohuwa

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Emmanuel Omokhetana Uniamikogbo

Rhema University - Department of Accounting, Students

Date Written: December 31, 2017

Abstract

Fraud is an economic and social menace with multiplier adverse consequences on individuals, organizations and the society at large. Hence, the Fraud Box key Model (FBKM) was used as one of the palliative measures to eradicating and proffering a permanent solution to this monster called fraud. The aim of this study was to ascertain the effectiveness of forensic accounting as a corporate governance tool in reducing fraud and improving internal control systems in the Banking Industry. A Likert scale questionnaire was designed and used as the research instrument for data generation from respondents. 120 questionnaires were administered to bankers in Benin City using the judgmental sampling technique. Data obtained were analyzed using Binomial test. Findings from the study revealed that forensic accounting aside significantly reducing fraud in the banking industry, has helped to improve considerably the internal control systems of banks. It was recommended that the regulatory agencies and shareholders should strictly enforce forensic accounting of banks and ensure that both internal control and internal audit staff embrace this emerging trend. Similarly, accounting professional bodies and academic institutions should provide the required specialized courses to ensure that forensic accounting personnel are adequately trained. Bank employees should be duly sensitize on the dangers inherent in fraud and the imperative of morals. Finally, stakeholders should cooperate to ensure a fraud free banking industry.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Fraud, Fraud Box Key Model, Internal Audit Internal Control System

JEL Classification: M410

Suggested Citation:

Aigienohuwa, Osarenren and Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Uniamikogbo, Emmanuel Omokhetana, Forensic Accounting and Fraud Mitigation in the Nigerian Banking Industry (December 31, 2017). Accounting and Taxation Review 2017; 1(1):177-195, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
T U Aburime
Company-level determinants of bank profitability in Nigeria
Finance and Economic Issues , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 221 - 239 Posted: 2008
F F Adegbie , A S Fakile
Economic and financial crime in Nigeria: Forensic accounting as antidote
British Journal of Arts and Social Sciences , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 50 Posted: 2012
A A Adeniyi
Analysis of fraud in banks: Evidence from Nigeria
International Journal of Innovative Finance and Economics Research , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 16 - 25 Posted: 2016
A A Adeniyi
Forensic auditing and financial fraud in Nigerian Deposit Money (DMBS)
European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research , volume 4 , issue 8 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
641
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,532
RANK
94,800
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies