Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of the Effect of Fraud and Related Financial Crimes on the Nigerian Economy

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Gbegi, D.O. (2013).An Evaluation of the Effect of Fraud and Related Financial Crimes on the Nigerian Economy. Kuwait Chapter of Arabian Journal of Business and Management Review. 2(7):81-91

11 Pages Posted: 3 May 2018

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

D.O. Gbegi

Kogi State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 1, 2013

Abstract

The objective of this study is to determine the impact of fraud and related financial crimes on the growth and development of Nigerian economy. Data for the study were collected from secondary sources only. The research analyzed the data generated using regression analysis. The research findings revealed that, fraud and related financial crime has significant effect on the Nigerian economy while fraud and financial crime have no significant effect on inflation. The research therefore recommends that Auditors and Accountants in organizations and financial institutions should be trained on how to carry out forensic investigation since the fraudsters are now sophisticated in their act. Also internal control systems should be strengthened to block opportunities that attract fraud perpetrators and oversight function of the National Assembly be strengthened to make public office holders accountable.

Keywords: Fraud, Financial Crime, Nigeria, Economy

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Gbegi, D.O., An Evaluation of the Effect of Fraud and Related Financial Crimes on the Nigerian Economy (March 1, 2013). Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Gbegi, D.O. (2013).An Evaluation of the Effect of Fraud and Related Financial Crimes on the Nigerian Economy. Kuwait Chapter of Arabian Journal of Business and Management Review. 2(7):81-91 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3163011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
M Omer
A paper delivered by B.I.G. consulting in conjunction with Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) Ikeja Branch at Tourist Garden Hotel
American Behavioural Scientist , volume 27 , p. 109 - 128 Posted: 1977
Some Good News: Crime is declining Retrieved from: www.fbi.org. FCC (2004): Section 46 of the EFCC Act
BI Posted: 2004
O Zekwesili
Africa: Dealing with Global Economic Financial storm" This Day Newspaper Tuesday Posted: 2009-06-23
F Alana
Vanguard November 17. iscal Responsibility Act Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
836
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,667
RANK
67,009
1 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies