Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Outliers with Semi-Supervised Machine Learning: A Fraud Prediction Application

XREAP WP 2018-02

33 Pages Posted: 7 May 2018

Sebastian M. Palacio

University of Barcelona - Department of Econometrics

Date Written: April 19, 2018

Abstract

Abnormal pattern prediction has received a great deal of attention from both academia and industry, with applications that range from fraud, terrorism and intrusion detection to sensor events, medical diagnoses, weather patterns, etc. In practice, most abnormal pattern prediction problems are characterized by the presence of a small number of labeled data and a huge number of unlabeled data. While this points most obviously to the adoption of a semi-supervised approach, most empirical studies have opted for a simplification and treated it as a supervised problem, resulting in a severe bias of false negatives. In this paper, we propose an innovative methodology based on semi-supervised techniques and introduce a new metric the Cluster-Score for abnormal homogeneity measurement. Specifically, the methodology involves transmuting unsupervised models to supervised models using the Cluster-Score metric, which defines the objective boundaries between clusters and evaluates the homogeneity of the abnormalities in the cluster construction. We apply this methodology to a problem of fraud detection among property insurance claims. The objectives are to increase the number of fraudulent claims detected and to reduce the proportion of claims investigated that are, in fact, non-fraudulent. The results from applying our methodology considerably improved these objectives.

Keywords: Outlier Detection, Semi-Supervised Models, Fraud, Cluster, Insurance

Suggested Citation:

Palacio, Sebastian M., Detecting Outliers with Semi-Supervised Machine Learning: A Fraud Prediction Application (April 19, 2018). XREAP WP 2018-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3165318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Manuel Arts , Mercedes Ayuso , Montserrat Guillen
Modelling different types of automobile insurance fraud behaviour in the spanish market
Insurance: Mathematics and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1-2 , p. 67 - 81 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Manuel Arts , Mercedes Ayuso , Montserrat Guillen
Detection of automobile insurance fraud with discrete choice models and misclassified claims , volume 69 , p. 325 - 340 Posted: 2002-09
Crossref
Rekha Bhowmik
Detecting auto insurance fraud by data mining techniques , volume 2 , p. 156 - 162 Posted: 2011-04
R Christopher , Martin H Bollinger , David
Modeling discrete choice with response error: Food stamp participation
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 92 , issue 439 , p. 827 - 835 Posted: 1997
Load more
2 Citations
Fabián-Vinicio Constante-Nicolalde , Paulo Guerra-Terán , Jorge-Luis Pérez-Medina
Applied Technologies
, volume 1194 , p. 145 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Dilber Uzun Ozsahin , Mubarak Taiwo Mustapha , Auwalu Saleh Mubarak , Zubaida Said Ameen , Berna Uzun
Impact of Outliers and Dimensionality Reduction on the Performance of Predictive Models for Medical Disease Diagnosis
, p. 79 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,495
RANK
240,980
2 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies