Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Risks of Corporate Fraud: The Evidence from Hong Kong and Singapore

Forthcoming, Honk Kong Law Journal

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2018/020

35 Pages Posted: 7 May 2018 Last revised: 29 May 2018

Wai Yee Wan

City University of Hong Kong; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Centre for Chinese & Comparative Law

Christopher C. Chen

National Taiwan University - College of Law

Chongwu Xia

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Say Hak Goo

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

Since the Asian financial crisis of 1997, Hong Kong and Singapore have implemented reforms that promote independence and monitoring competency of the boards of directors of their listed companies. However, with the advent of the financial crisis of 2007/2008, a wave of fraud cases prompts the question as to the effectiveness of these reforms. Analysing a sample of 62 listed companies which are found to have committed fraud between 2007 and 2014, and comparing against a matched sample of no-fraud companies, we find that the fraud companies tend to either combine the roles of chairman and chief executive officer (or they are close family members) and have fewer non-accounting finance experts on their boards. They are also likely to be overseas mainland Chinese firms. Analysing the specific case studies of fraud, the reasons for the lack of effectiveness in the independent directors in preventing fraud are likely due to the difficulties in obtaining access to information in approving conflicted transactions, low threat of enforcement actions, their incentives to side with controlling shareholders and the challenges in regulating foreign listings.

Keywords: corporate fraud, independent directors, corporate governance, foreign listings

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Wan, Wai Yee and Chen, Christopher Chao-hung and Xia, Chongwu and Goo, Say Hak, Managing the Risks of Corporate Fraud: The Evidence from Hong Kong and Singapore (October 1, 2017). Forthcoming, Honk Kong Law Journal, University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2018/020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Regulatory%20and%20Supervisory%20Framework/Corporate%20Governance%20of%20Listed%20Companies /corfinalrpt.pdf Posted: 2017-07
Crossref
Listing Sehk , Rules
Posted: 1921
Crossref
Guidebook for Audit Committees in Singapore , volume 57 Posted: 2014-08-19
Crossref
Listing Rules, r 14A.39; SGX, Listing Rules
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,659
RANK
303,587
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University Yong Pung How School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies