Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whistleblowers and Outcomes of Financial Misrepresentation Enforcement Actions

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 56, No. 1, 2018

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 3165572

Posted: 6 May 2018

Andrew C. Call

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Gerald S. Martin

American University - Kogod School of Business

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

Whistleblowers are ostensibly a valuable resource to regulators investigating securities violations, but whether there is a link between whistleblower involvement and the outcomes of enforcement actions is unclear. Using a data set of employee whistleblowing allegations obtained from the U.S. government and the universe of enforcement actions for financial misrepresentation, we find that whistleblower involvement is associated with higher monetary penalties for targeted firms and employees and with longer prison sentences for culpable executives. We also find that regulators more quickly begin enforcement proceedings when whistleblowers are involved. Our findings suggest that whistleblowers are a valuable source of information for regulators who investigate and prosecute financial misrepresentation.

Keywords: whistleblowers; enforcement actions; fraud; penalties; ﬁnancial reporting; Securities and Exchange Commission

JEL Classification: G38; K22; K42; M40; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Call, Andrew C. and Martin, Gerald S. and Sharp, Nathan Y. and Wilde, Jaron H., Whistleblowers and Outcomes of Financial Misrepresentation Enforcement Actions (March 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 56, No. 1, 2018, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 3165572, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165572
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,031
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies