Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a Proactive Role of Internal Auditors in Anti-Money Laundry Compliance Review: An Egyptian Perspective

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 9, No. 6, 2018; ISSN (Paper)2222-1697 ISSN (Online)2222-2847

10 Pages Posted: 8 May 2018 Last revised: 20 Jul 2018

Sara H. Sabry

Egypt-Japan University for Science and Technology

Date Written: March 22, 2018

Abstract

The banking sector is crucial to any financial sector's stability and prosperity. But Money laundering (ML) threatens such stability through its vicious consequences. Thus, the need for a solid and rigorous AML programs emerged. In the light of the drastic evolution of the business environment over the last decades to rely heavily on information technology (IT), the new role for internal auditors (IAs) needed to convoy such evolution by advancing from a traditional and reactive role to a more proactive and strategic role. No study has closely investigated the impact of IAs involvement in IT governance on IAs effectiveness in AML compliance review. A survey was developed based on the prior literature and was administered to IAs in the Egyptian Banking sector. In all, 39 usable questionnaires were received. Smart partial least square was used to analyse the responses, the results indicated that IAs involvement in IT governance structures and relational capabilities significantly affected the IAs effectiveness. But IT involvement in processes was found to be insignificant. The overall results should be useful to banks in general, seeking to utilize the IAs to their full aptitude in combating ML through improving the IAs effectiveness in AML compliance review.

Keywords: IT governance, AML compliance review, Internal Auditors

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Sabry, Sara H., Towards a Proactive Role of Internal Auditors in Anti-Money Laundry Compliance Review: An Egyptian Perspective (March 22, 2018). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 9, No. 6, 2018; ISSN (Paper)2222-1697 ISSN (Online)2222-2847, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3166773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,102
RANK
420,501
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies