Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Classification of Corruption in Indonesia: A Behavioral Perspective

SHS Web of Conferences 34, 10002, 2017

9 Pages Posted: 12 May 2018

Rizki Hamdani

Universitas Islam Indonesia

Kumalahadi Kumalahadi

Universitas Islam Indonesia - Faculty of Economics

Dekar Urumsah

Universitas Islam Indonesia (UII) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 30, 2017

Abstract

This research is aimed to investigate and identify the pattern and classification of corruptors in Indonesia, especially the state officials being imprisoned. This research used the qualitative method. The data were collected through documentations and interviews. The source of the data was chosen by purposive sampling technique. The researcher interviewed deeply 9 suspects of corruption cases being imprisoned. The results of the research show that the classification of corruptors in Indonesia includes all types of corruptions constructed by the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE), namely: conflict of interest, bribery, illegal gratuities, and economic extortion. Based on the interview, it is found that the interviewees perform different types of corruptions as follows: there are some suspects perform more than one type of corruptions; there are some suspects perform single corruptions with the same type, and there are some suspects perform single corruptions with the different type. In Indonesia, it is not only the people of executive, legislative, and judiciary who can perform corruptions, but also the people of private sections.

Suggested Citation:

Hamdani, Rizki and Kumalahadi, Kumalahadi and Urumsah, Dekar, The Classification of Corruption in Indonesia: A Behavioral Perspective (January 30, 2017). SHS Web of Conferences 34, 10002, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3170476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
P Bardhan
Corruption and Development: A Review of Issues
J. Econ. Lit , volume 35 , p. 1320 - 1346 Posted: 1997
Crossref
K M Murphy , A Shleifer , R W Vishny
Why is rent-seeking so costly to growth?
Am. Econ. Rev. Pap. Proc , volume 83 , p. 409 - 414 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Shleifer , R W Vishnyi
Corruption. Q. J. Econ , volume 108 , p. 599 - 617 Posted: 1993
Crossref
P Mauro
Corruption and Growth
Q. J. Econ , volume 110 , p. 681 - 712 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,624
RANK
137,964
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies