Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Controls in Fraud Prevention Effort: A Case Study

Jurnal Akuntansi & Auditing Indonesia, Vol. 20 No. 2, December 2016

9 Pages Posted: 12 May 2018

Rizki Hamdani

Universitas Islam Indonesia

Ahmad Riski Albar

Universitas Muhammadiyah Sumatera Utara - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

This study is aimed at investigating how far the internal controls are able to prevent fraud in financing administration at an Islamic Bank in Medan, Indonesia. The method applied in this study was a case study method. The operational definition used in this study was COSO framework. The data were collected through observations and semi-structured interviews. The results of the study show that some weaknesses of the internal controls have been identified as one of the factors of fraud. Poor internal controls lead to fraud. The management of the bank still employs one official to the same officials to conduct various financing activities. It leads to fraud because the activities are lack of supervisions. This study is focused on one company, so the findings may not be generalized to other companies. It is because of the different types of business, working environment, and practices. It is expected that the future study is able to enlarge the number of samples or companies.

Keywords: internal controls, fraud prevention, financing administration, Islamic bank

Suggested Citation:

Hamdani, Rizki and Riski Albar, Ahmad, Internal Controls in Fraud Prevention Effort: A Case Study (December 1, 2016). Jurnal Akuntansi & Auditing Indonesia, Vol. 20 No. 2, December 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3170442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
S H Alatas
Sosiologi korupsi sebuah penjelajahan dengan data kontemporer Posted: 1986
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A A Arens , R J Elder , M S Beasley
Auditing and assurance services: an integrated approach Posted: 2012
T Asare
Internal auditing in the public sector: promoting good governance and performance improvement
International Journal on Governmental Financial Management , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 28 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,553
RANK
328,615
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies