Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Building the Legitimacy of Whistleblowers: A Multi-Case Discourse Analysis

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2018-1277

94 Pages Posted: 13 May 2018 Last revised: 4 Jun 2018

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Jodie Moll

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School; Queensland University of Technology

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: April 26, 2018

Abstract

Evidence suggests society still does not view whistleblowers as wholly legitimate – despite legal protections now offered in some jurisdictions, such as the United States. Drawing on a discourse analysis, (i.e., an examination of statements), we investigate the well-publicized stories of seven whistleblowers from 69 sources, including books, first- and second-hand interviews, websites and videos. Our focus is to examine how whistleblower discourses can build legitimacy by more tightly defining the whistleblower role and demonstrating its alignment with social norms. Using whistleblower self-narratives, we identify four narrative patterns: (1) Trigger(s): the event(s) leading to whistleblowing; (2) Personality traits: whistleblower’s morality, resourcefulness, and determination; (3) Constraints: barriers requiring regulatory and organizational change; and (4) Consequences: the longer-term positive impact of the whistleblowing act. These patterns rely on symbolic, analogical, and metaphorical framing to allow others to better understand the role of whistleblowers and enlist their support. Exploring a data-set of 1,621 press articles, we find indications that these narrative patterns resonate in the media – which provide a form of support and may be instrumental in legitimizing the whistleblower role. Grounded on these results, we develop a legitimacy construction model of the whistleblower role, i.e., a representation of how role legitimacy is produced and sustained. From this model, we identify a number of important areas for future research.

Keywords: Whistleblowing, Fraud Detection, Role Definition, Discourse Analysis, Legitimacy, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX)

JEL Classification: G3, M4, P1

Suggested Citation:

Stolowy, Hervé and Gendron, Yves and Moll, Jodie and Paugam, Luc, Building the Legitimacy of Whistleblowers: A Multi-Case Discourse Analysis (April 26, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2018-1277, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
285 References
A D Abbott
The system of professions Posted: 1988
J E Alexander , M A Tate
Web wisdom: How to evaluate and create information quality on the web Posted: 1999
C F Alford
Whistleblowers -Broken lives and organizational power Posted: 2002
J Andrade
Reconceptualising whistleblowing in a complex world
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 128 , issue 2 , p. 321 - 335 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Laurence Daoust , Bertrand Malsch
When the Client Is a Former Auditor: Auditees’ Expert Knowledge and Social Capital As Threats to Staff Auditors’ Operational Independence
75 Pages · Posted: 26 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 154
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ernesto Lopez-Valeiras , Jacobo Gomez-Conde , David Naranjo-Gil , Ricardo Malagueño
Employees’ perception of management control systems as a threat: effects on deliberate ignorance and workplace deviance
Accounting Forum, https://doi.org/10.1080/01559982.2022.2140500 · 52 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2020 · Last revised: 2 Dec 2022 · Downloads: 268
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gregory D. Saxton , Dean Neu
Financial Inscriptions and Social Accountability Processes
53 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Luc Paugam , Hervé Stolowy , Yves Gendron
Deploying Narrative Economics to Understand Financial Market Dynamics: An Analysis of Activist Short Sellers’ Rhetoric
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2020-1401 · 81 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 24 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 542
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,776
RANK
185,154
9 Citations
285 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies