Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of 3rd Party Fraud on UK Retail Banking Customers and Anti-fraud Strategy for UK Banks and Building Societies

80 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2018 Last revised: 7 Jun 2018

Katheesan Sivarajah

Independent

Date Written: April 27, 2018

Abstract

This dissertation was designed to investigate third-party frauds on UK retail banking customers, including card fraud, cheque fraud, online banking fraud, telephone banking fraud and banking phishing fraud and the fraud risk management frameworks for UK banks and building societies. The most common and prevalent bank fraud is card fraud which is perpetrated in many ways; counterfeit card fraud, card-not-present fraud, lost and stolen card fraud, card ID theft and card non-receipt fraud. The UK bank and building societies are required to have an effective fraud detection and prevention system in place to protect their customers from third-party retail banking frauds.

The researcher employed positivism as a research philosophy for this study and used deductive approach to achieve research objectives. The quantitative research method was adopted for this research. However, this research showed some characteristics of a qualitative research method to study the fraud risk management frameworks for UK banks and building societies. Moreover, this research was carried out with the use of secondary data on third-party fraud on UK retail banking customers and UK card payments obtained from the Financial Fraud Action UK and the UK Cards Association from 2004 to 2016. The secondary data were analysed by using the SPSS software and Microsoft Excel. Findings were revealed for third-party retail banking fraud losses from 2004 to 2016. This research was conducted in line the Framework for Research Ethics (FRE) to make sure integrity, transparency and quality of this study. Therefore, findings can be reliable and valid. Irrespective of research limitations, the researcher managed to provide answer for all research questions and made suggestion for future research.

Keywords: Card fraud, cheque fraud, online banking fraud, telephone banking fraud, banking phishing fraud, counterfeit card fraud, card-not-present fraud, card ID theft, card non-receipt

Suggested Citation:

Sivarajah, Katheesan, A Study of 3rd Party Fraud on UK Retail Banking Customers and Anti-fraud Strategy for UK Banks and Building Societies (April 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3175746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
Number of phishing websites targeted against UK retail banks from Posted: 2004
FFA, 2016 and FFA, 2015) Chart 8 -UK Banking phishing
Source Posted: 2004
L Adams
The pros & cons of using debit cards Posted: 2011-02
R Adbullahi , N Mansor
Fraud triangle theory and fraud diamond theory, understanding the convergent and divergent for future research
International Journal of Academic research in Accounting , volume 5 , issue 4 Posted: 2015-11
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,593
RANK
215,250
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies