Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fighting Accounting Fraud Through Forensic Data Analytics

39 Pages Posted: 22 May 2018

Maria Jofre

Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore and Transcrime

Richard H. Gerlach

University of Sydney

Date Written: April 30, 2018

Abstract

Accounting fraud is a global concern representing a significant threat to the financial system stability due to the resulting diminishing of the market confidence and trust of regulatory authorities. Several tricks can be used to commit accounting fraud, hence the need for non-static regulatory interventions that take into account different fraudulent patterns. Accordingly, this study aims to improve the detection of accounting fraud via the implementation of several machine learning methods to better differentiate between fraud and non-fraud companies, and to further assist the task of examination within the riskier firms by evaluating relevant financial indicators. Out-of-sample results suggest there is a great potential in detecting falsified financial statements through statistical modelling and analysis of publicly available accounting information. The proposed methodology can be of assistance to public auditors and regulatory agencies as it facilitates auditing processes, and supports more targeted and effective examinations of accounting reports.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Accounting Fraud, Machine Learning, Corporate Regulation

JEL Classification: C02, C12, C14, C38, C52, C53, H83, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jofre, Maria and Gerlach, Richard H., Fighting Accounting Fraud Through Forensic Data Analytics (April 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3176288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3176288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
S Abe , ; B Baesens , V V Vlasselaer , W Verbeke
Fraud Analytics Using Descriptive, Predictive, and Social Network Techniques: A Guide to Data Science for Fraud Detection Posted: 2005
M Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation between the Board of Director Composition and Financial Statement Fraud. The Accounting Review Posted: 1996
Crossref
T Bell , J Carcello
A Decision Aid for Assessing the Likelihood of Fraudulent Financial Reporting
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Bishop
Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning Posted: 2006
Load more
2 Citations
James Osabuohien Odia , Osaheni Thaddeus Akpata
Handbook of Research on Engineering, Business, and Healthcare Applications of Data Science and Analytics
, p. 203 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Sally S. Simpson
Reimagining Sutherland 80 years after white‐collar crime*
Criminology , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 189 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,674
RANK
43,175
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies