Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Research on the Responsibility of Accounting Professionals to Determine and Prevent Accounting Errors and Frauds: Edirne Sample

Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ), University of Pittsburgh Press (USA), Vol. 7, No: 1, pp. 53-64. (2017)

13 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2018

Semanur Adalı

Istanbul University

Cevdet Kizil

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Date Written: September 15, 2017

Abstract

In this study, the ethical dimensions of accounting professionals related to accounting errors and frauds were examined. Firstly, general and technical information about accounting were provided. Then, some terminology on error, fraud and ethics in accounting were discussed. Study also included recent statistics about accounting errors and fraud as well as presenting a literature review. As the methodology of research, a questionnaire was distributed to 36 accounting professionals residing in Edirne city of Turkey. The collected data were then entered to the SPSS package program for analysis. The study revealed very important results. Accounting professionals think that, accounting chambers do not organize enough seminars/conferences on errors and fraud. They also believe that supervision and disciplinary boards of professional accounting chambers fulfill their responsibilities partially. Attitude of professional accounting chambers in terms of errors, fraud and ethics is considered neither strict nor lenient. But, most accounting professionals are aware of colleagues who had disciplinary penalties. Most important and effective tool to prevent errors and fraud is indicated as external audit, but internal audit and internal control are valued as well. According to accounting professionals, most errors occur due to incorrect data received from clients and as a result of recording. Fraud is generally made in order to get credit from banks and for providing benefits to the organization by not showing the real situation of the firm. Finally, accounting professionals state that being honest, trustworthy and impartial is the basis of accounting profession and accountants must adhere to ethical rules.

Keywords: Accounting, Accounting Professionals, Error, Fraud, Edirne

Suggested Citation:

Adalı, Semanur and Kizil, Cevdet, A Research on the Responsibility of Accounting Professionals to Determine and Prevent Accounting Errors and Frauds: Edirne Sample (September 15, 2017). Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ), University of Pittsburgh Press (USA), Vol. 7, No: 1, pp. 53-64. (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3179567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Research on the Responsibility of Accounting Professionals to Determine and Prevent Accounting Errors and Frauds: Edirne Sample REFERENCES ACFE Posted: 2014
Crossref
Acfe
ACFE. Association of Certified Fraud Examiner. US: ACFE. Retrieved Mart 28 Posted: 2016
S A Anuk
Muhasebe Hata ve Hileleri ile Muhasebe Mesleğinde Etik. İstanbul: Bahçeşehir Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü , p. 54 - 103 Posted: 2015
T D Baskan
Muhasebe Hata ve Hilelerinin Önlemesinde Bağımsız Denetimin Rolü ve Etkinliği: Bir Uygulama , p. 184 - 186 Posted: 2013
Load more
3 Citations
Vedat Akman , Berkan Acar , Cevdet Kizil
Audit Techniques to Avoid Cost Accounting Frauds
Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ), University of Pittsburgh Press (USA), Vol. 10, No: 1, pp.60-66. · 7 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 586
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Cevdet Kizil , Tunay Aslan
Akaryakıt İstasyonlarının İşlemlerinin Muhasebeleştirilmesi: Bir Akaryakıt İstasyonu Üzerinde Uygulama (Accounting of Gas Station Transactions: An Implementation on a Gas Station)
Turkish Studies - Economy, 16(1), 335-348, 2021. https://dx.doi.org/10.47644/TurkishStudies.47606 · 14 Pages · Posted: 9 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 113
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Cevdet Kizil , Erol Muzır , Vildan Yılmaz
Auditing Techniques to Minimize Accounting Related Fraud and Errors: A Qualitative Analysis with the Interview Method
Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ), University of Pittsburgh Press (USA), Vol. 11, No: 1, ISSN: 2158-8708 (online), https://doi.org/10.5195/emaj.2021.232, pp.95-103, https://emaj.pitt.edu/ojs/index.php/emaj/article/download/232/423 · 9 Pages · Posted: 13 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 403
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,016
RANK
158,915
3 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies