Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Fraud Risk Assessment, Auditor Independence of Audit of the Quality of Financial Inspectorate Regional Authorities (Case Study in South Sulawesi Provincial Inspectorate)

19 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2018

Linda Razak

University Hasanuddin

Abdullah Ramly

Hasanuddin University

Haliah Fe

Hasanuddin University

Date Written: May 30, 2018

Abstract

The research aims to determine the effect of fraud risk assessment, independence, on audit quality Inspectorate Officers in the area of financial supervision in South Sulawesi Provincial Inspectorate.

This Research using primary data from questionnaire data collection methods. The population in this study were all auditors working in the South Sulawesi Provincial Inspectorate which amounted to 45 auditors.

The results showed that based on the results of multiple regression analysis, fraud risk assessment significant effect on audit quality. The independence has no significant effect on audit quality. The implications of this study are expected to become a reference in particular South Sulawesi Provincial Inspectorate for designing strategies for knowing and being able to improve the things that can support motivation for the attainment of the objectives of the audit and produce a performance as expected.

Keywords: Fraud Risk Assessment, Independence, Quality audit

JEL Classification: G

Suggested Citation:

Razak, Linda and Ramly, Abdullah and Fe, Haliah, Effect of Fraud Risk Assessment, Auditor Independence of Audit of the Quality of Financial Inspectorate Regional Authorities (Case Study in South Sulawesi Provincial Inspectorate) (May 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3187681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3187681
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Commentary: SEC Auditor Independence Requirements. Accounting Horizons , volume 15 , p. 373 - 386 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Albrecht
Financial Statement Fraud: Prevention and Detection Posted: 2006
M N Alim , T Hapsari , L Purwanti
Effect of Competence and Independence on the Quality Audit by Auditor Ethics as Variable Moderation. Accounting National Symposium X Posted: 2007
Alvin A Arens , Randal J Elder , Beasly , S Mark
the Auditing and Assurance Services d an Integrated Approach , volume 1 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,438
RANK
350,629
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies