Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Improbability of Fraud in Accounting for Derivatives: A Case Study on the Boundaries of Financial Reporting Compliance

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2018 Last revised: 12 Jul 2018

Berit Hartmann

Gothenburg University, School of Economics, Business and Law

Jan Peter Marton

University of Gothenburg

Rebecca Söderström

Uppsala University

Date Written: April 5, 2018

Abstract

This study responds to recent calls in the literature to examine fraud using detailed case studies, extending knowledge beyond individual incentives and capital market reactions towards a more contextualized understanding of the concept and its social construction. We use an institutional logics perspective to challenge existing assumptions about a universally valid meaning of the central accounting concepts of compliance, fraud, and faithful representation. Presenting the case of the Swedish bank HQ, we show how the interpretation of an accounting standard for option measurement varies because the meaning of compliant practice is socially negotiated across the contradictory institutional logics of markets, financial regulation, and law. The variation of rationales drawn upon in this negotiation makes it difficult to define the boundaries of compliance using a standard across these logics, and thus, to distinguish between fraud and allowable managerial discretion. Faithful representation becomes a complex matter because it can neither be understood as financial statements reflecting a correct value nor as financial statements being prepared in accordance with acceptable practice, as suggested in earlier literature. Instead, faithful representation itself becomes a contextually bound concept.

Keywords: Fraud, Fair Value, Banking Industry, Institutional Logic, Financial Instruments

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Hartmann, Berit and Marton, Jan Peter and Söderström, Rebecca, The Improbability of Fraud in Accounting for Derivatives: A Case Study on the Boundaries of Financial Reporting Compliance (April 5, 2018). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3199710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
J Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' demand for conservatism: Evidence from changes in directors' fiduciary duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS -10 years later
Accounting & Business Research , volume 46 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,127
RANK
538,134
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies