Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Accounting Information: Evidence from an Emerging Market

Advances in Accounting, 30(1), 176-186, 2014

39 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2018

Tamer Elshandidy

Ajman University

Date Written: July 1, 2014

Abstract

Without making any distinction of the applicable accounting standards, this paper investigates, firstly, the value relevance of accounting information from 1999 to 2012 in different segments of the Chinese stock market. This investigation includes A-shares, prepared under Chinese Accounting Standards (CAS) for domestic firms; B-shares, prepared under either the International Accounting Standards (IAS) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for both domestic and overseas firms; and H-shares prepared under either the IAS or Hong Kong GAAP for Hong Kong and overseas firms. Then, the paper examines whether or not the converged IFRS with CAS, applicable from 2007 onwards, is more value relevant when compared with prior to the 2007’s standards (CAS, IAS, Hong Kong GAAP for A-, B-, and H-share markets, respectively). Based on 34,020 firm-year observations and after controlling for industry- and year-fixed effects, the findings suggest that accounting information is value relevant with A- and B-share markets, whilst it is partially relevant with the H-share market. The paper finds that the converged IFRS with CAS is more value relevant in A- and B-shares and it is partially more value relevant with the H-share market. These findings have implications for both policymakers and investors since they provide further empirical evidence for the current policy procedure which harmonizes local GAAP with IFRS.

Keywords: A-, B- and H-Shares; Converged IFRS with CAS; Value Relevance

Suggested Citation:

Elshandidy, Tamer, Value Relevance of Accounting Information: Evidence from an Emerging Market (July 1, 2014). Advances in Accounting, 30(1), 176-186, 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3206227 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3206227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , A Wong , A Wu
The information environment of China's A and B shares: Can we make sense of the numbers?
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 34 , issue 4 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B Bao , L Chow
The usefulness of earnings and book value firms equity valuation in emerging capital markets: Evidence from listed companies in the People's Republic of China
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 85 - 104 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Barniv
Does foreign investor demand for information affect forecast accuracy? Evidence from the Chinese stock markets
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 118 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C J P Chen , S M Chen , X J Su
Is accounting information value-relevant in the emerging Chinese stock market
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
RANK
564,093
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies