Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Auditor Gender Influence Auditor Liability? Exploring the Impact of the Crime Congruency Effect on Jurors' Perceptions of Auditor Negligence

Advances in Accounting, 38, 75-87. DOI/10.1016/j.adiac.2017.07.006, 2017

Posted: 31 Jul 2018

Jillian Alderman

Pepperdine University - Graziadio School of Business and Management

Date Written: August 12, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the liability risk associated with auditors' personal and financial conflicts of interest, and the potential for differences in liability exposure based on the gender of the auditor. A survey-based experiment was performed with 160 jury-eligible participants who reviewed a scenario in which an auditor, the defendant, failed to detect and report fraudulent behavior on the part of a client. The plaintiffs in this case are investors in the company who sustained financial losses due to the fraud, asserting that the audit firm should be liable for damages. A 2 × 2 between-subjects experiment examined how the auditor's gender (male/female) and the motivations of the alleged conflict of interest (personal vs. financial) influence jury-eligible individuals' perceptions of the defendant's independence and liability for negligence and fraud. Results indicate that female auditors are perceived as less independent and more liable for a personal conflict of interest, compared to male auditors. Male auditors are perceived as less independent and more liable for a financial conflict of interest, compared to female auditors. Auditors, regardless of gender, were perceived as less independent and more liable for a personal conflict of interest compared to a financial conflict of interest. The outcome of this study could be utilized to educate audit firms on the potential risks of liability that could emerge in unanticipated areas, and to assist with audit planning and legal decisions.

Keywords: Auditors, Liability, Professional Liability, Accounting, Auditing, Jurors, Gender

Suggested Citation:

Alderman, Jillian, Does Auditor Gender Influence Auditor Liability? Exploring the Impact of the Crime Congruency Effect on Jurors' Perceptions of Auditor Negligence (August 12, 2017). Advances in Accounting, 38, 75-87. DOI/10.1016/j.adiac.2017.07.006, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3212489
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies