Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foxes in the Henhouse: An Exploratory Inquiry into Financial Markets Fraud.

Wall, J. and Fogarty, T. (2016). Foxes in the Henhouse: An Exploratory Inquiry into Financial Markets Fraud. Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting 8(1): 120-139.

Posted: 8 Aug 2018

Joseph Wall

Marquette University

Timothy J. Fogarty

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 1, 2016

Abstract

A grounded theory investigation of systemic fraud in the financial marketplace. interviews with 31 professional investors reveal ten key findings. First, money is the primary motivation for fraud in the professional investing community. Second, financial greed and manipulation are the norm in the trading culture. Third, the need to win is a strong motivator in this community. Fourth, there is a perception that everyone is committing fraud to some degree. Sixth, the opportunities to commit fraud are more plentiful than expected. Seventh, the principal-agent problem looms large in the marketplace. Eighth, traders use their skills to commit fraud in a sophisticated manner. Ninth, internal controls between units breaks down often. Last, the difference between black and white (shades of grey) dominates the culture.

Keywords: fraud, professional investors, traders, stock markets, qualitative

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Wall, Joseph and Fogarty, Timothy J., Foxes in the Henhouse: An Exploratory Inquiry into Financial Markets Fraud. (January 1, 2016). Wall, J. and Fogarty, T. (2016). Foxes in the Henhouse: An Exploratory Inquiry into Financial Markets Fraud. Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting 8(1): 120-139., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3217341
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Consumer Financial Fraud eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies