Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Market Consequences for Non-Implicated CFOs in Fraud Firms: Investigating Relative Blame and Nuanced Contagion Effects

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 18-31

60 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Eric Condie

Georgia Institute of Technology

Amanda Convery

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Karla M. Zehms

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: July 25, 2018

Abstract

We explore labor market consequences for CFOs employed by fraud firms, focusing on contagion effects of blame for CFOs who are not implicated, i.e., not publicly blamed by the SEC for committing the fraud. Studying these individuals is important because they are associated with the fraud, so it is legitimate to question the quality of their governance oversight, and there may exist a lingering suspicion of potential involvement. Further, the labor market serves as a complementary oversight mechanism to ensure the integrity of the capital markets, so understanding how that market operates is important. We compare these non-implicated CFOs to two control samples: CFOs who are implicated and CFOs at non-fraud firms. Using hand-collected social media data, we track consequences for these groups from the fraud event through 2015. We find evidence consistent with the organizational disequilibrium hypothesis, whereby the vast majority of implicated CFOs exit their respective firms following the fraud, but about two-thirds of non-implicated CFOs still experience turnover. Only half of the non-implicated CFOs obtain employment in positions of comparable status in their subsequent three roles. To investigate the nuances of this contagion, we compare the employment status of non-implicated CFOs to that of non-fraud firm CFOs. We find that only about half of the CFOs from both groups achieve comparable employment status in the long run. Taken together, our results reveal close scrutiny of all CFOs who display labor market movements across firms regardless of the underlying reason for their turnover.

Keywords: contagion, fraud, labor markets, management turnover, reputational penalties, subsequent employment

Suggested Citation:

Condie, Eric and Convery, Amanda and Zehms, Karla M., Labor Market Consequences for Non-Implicated CFOs in Fraud Firms: Investigating Relative Blame and Nuanced Contagion Effects (July 25, 2018). Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 18-31, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3220002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,829
RANK
552,669
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies