Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boiling the Frog Slowly: The Immersion of C-Suite Financial Executives into Fraud

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Ikseon Suh

Marquette University - Department of Accounting

John Sweeney

Independent

Kristina Linke

Independent

Joseph Wall

Marquette University

Date Written: December 10, 2017

Abstract

This study explores how financial executives retrospectively account for their crossing the line into financial statement fraud. We conduct our investigation through face-to-face interviews with 13 former C-suite financial executives who were involved in and indicted for major cases of accounting fraud. Five different themes of accounts emerged from the narratives, characterizing executives’ fraud immersion as a meaning-making process by which the particulars of proximal social context (the influence of social actors and contextual characteristics) and individual motivations collectively molded executives’ vocabularies of fraud immersion for crossing the line. Our executives’ narratives portray their fraud immersion as occurring in small, incremental steps. Their accounts expand our understanding of fraud beyond the individualized narrative of the fraud triangle into the vernaculars of intent, opportunism, and incentive-driven behavior rationalized ex ante to the misreporting act.

Suggested Citation:

Suh, Ikseon and Sweeney, John and Linke, Kristina and Wall, Joseph, Boiling the Frog Slowly: The Immersion of C-Suite Financial Executives into Fraud (December 10, 2017). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220004
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,441
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies