Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robbing the Rich? 'Robin Hood' Fraud in the Securities Markets

47 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Joseph Wall

Marquette University

Timothy J. Fogarty

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: February 1, 2018

Abstract

Research into fraud has been limited by the assumption that those who commit acts against propriety were necessarily motivated by personal financial gain. This research investigates the purposeful subversion of controls that lead to unwarranted wealth transfers that lack such a personal motive. The so-called “Robin Hood” fraudster appears to be surprisingly prominent in organized securities markets according to the results of this experimental research. Specifically, rule violation that allowed clients to reap excessive rewards thrive in the trading environment. Surprisingly, such behavior is not less likely in the presence of increased detection probabilities, a positive “tone at the top” or when traders earn a commission. However, two interaction effects among these influences are significant. Thus, some support is produced for the multiple influences of the Fraud Triangle. Implications for trading markets and the fraud literature are drawn.

Suggested Citation:

Wall, Joseph and Fogarty, Timothy J., Robbing the Rich? 'Robin Hood' Fraud in the Securities Markets (February 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3220026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
W S Albrecht , C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht , M F Zimbelman
Fraud examination Posted: 2016
W S Albrecht , K R Howe , M B Romney
Deterring fraud: The internal auditor's Perspective. Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation Posted: 1984
M Andretti
Bringing Freud to fraud
Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 81 Posted: 2014
A Bandura
Moral disengagement in the perpetration of inhumanities
Personality and Social Psychology Review , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 193 - 209 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,298
RANK
292,443
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies