Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Local Spillover Effect of Corporate Accounting Misconduct: Evidence from City Crime Rates

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-72

50 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2018 Last revised: 25 Jul 2019

Eric Holzman

Indiana University

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 24, 2019

Abstract

This study documents a spillover effect of accounting fraud by showing that after the revelation of accounting misconduct there is an increase in financially motivated neighborhood crime (robberies, thefts, etc.) in the cities where these misconduct firms are located. We find that more visible accounting frauds (e.g., greater media attention and larger stock price declines) are more strongly associated with a future increase in financially motivated neighborhood crime. Our findings are consistent with the general strain theory put forth by Agnew (1992), where individuals facing strain are more likely to commit financially motivated crime. In our setting, we predict that adverse shocks stemming from the fraud, strains local communities leading to the increase in the rate of financially motivated crime. Consistent with our predictions we find that the association between fraud revelation and increased future financially motivated crime is strongest when local city-wide unemployment increases, where local job markets are shallower, and where local income inequality is high.

Keywords: Accounting Misconduct; AAER; Crime; Local Strain

JEL Classification: M41; G30; D91

Suggested Citation:

Holzman, Eric and Miller, Brian P. and Williams, Brian, The Local Spillover Effect of Corporate Accounting Misconduct: Evidence from City Crime Rates (July 24, 2019). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-72, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3230019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3230019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
R Agnew
A revised strain theory of delinquency
Social forces , volume 64 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 167 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Agnew
Foundation for a general strain theory of crime and delinquency
Criminology , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 88 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R Agnew
A general strain theory of community differences in crime rates
Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 155 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Agnew
Building on the foundation of general strain theory: Specifying the types of strain most likely to lead to crime and delinquency
Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 319 - 361 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,651
RANK
92,907
2 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies