Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Scandals and Eye-Catching Frauds: USA-Japan Comparison by Considering the Role of Auditing

Journal of Asian Research Vol. 2, No. 3, 2018

16 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2018

Cevdet Kizil

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Burhan Kaşbaşı

Yalova University

Date Written: August 24, 2018

Abstract

It is necessary to provide confidence to financial markets, so that they can function and develop in a successful manner. Inaccurate financial statements subject to fraud which initiate accounting scandals make it difficult for financial statements users to make the right decision. In order to assure transparency, reliability, objectively and standardization, financial statements are audited by independent auditors. However, the accounting scandals experienced in the 21st century has shown that, independent auditing firms do not always fulfill their duties completely. For this reason, legislation was introduced in United States of America (USA), Europe and Asian countries, including Japan. Public oversight bodies were also established. But despite the introduced laws, regulations, arrangements and public oversight bodies, the risk of accounting scandals still continues. This is partly due to the fact that laws, regulations, arrangements and introduction of public oversight bodies are delayed and they are not completely meeting the expectations of changing market conditions. Effective pro-active policies and actions are not in order as well. This paper investigates accounting scandals and eye-cathing frauds by making a comparison between USA and Japan, while considering and discussing the role of auditing.

Keywords: Accounting, Auditing, Scandal, Fraud, USA, Japan

Suggested Citation:

Kizil, Cevdet and Kaşbaşı, Burhan, Accounting Scandals and Eye-Catching Frauds: USA-Japan Comparison by Considering the Role of Auditing (August 24, 2018). Journal of Asian Research Vol. 2, No. 3, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3237959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S Adalı , C Kızıl
A Research on the Responbility of Accounting Professionals to Determine and Prevent Accounting Errors and Frauds: Edirne Sample
Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ) , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 64 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Ashraf
The Accounting Fraud @ Worldcom: The Causes, The Characteristics, The Consequences, And The Lessons Learned. In A Thesis submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for Honors in the Major Program in Accounting in the College of Business Administration and in The Burnett Honors College at the Posted: 2011
T Aslan , C Kızıl , A Din
Muhasebe Hata ve Hileleri Üzerinde Etkili Faktörlerin Muhasebe Meslek Etiği Kapsamında Analizi: Yalova Örneği
Journal of Social and Humanities Sciences Research (JSHSR) , volume 4 , issue 12 , p. 1125 - 1138 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Barton
Who cares about auditor reputation?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 549 - 586 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,271
RANK
24,654
6 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies