Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Account in Public Finance Management

14 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2018

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: September 11, 2018

Abstract

The growing spate of corruption, fraud and financial crimes with devastating consequences on companies and national economies has compelled regulatory changes across national, regional and even international boundaries. In fact, the general perception was that such vices were largely an internal event, primarily impacting the organization's net earnings or earnings per share (EPS). They were not conceived to have a major impact in the way businesses were conducted. Unfortunately, that perception has considerably changed in recent times. Today, the world understands better with organizations knowing that the negative effect of these offences goes beyond the bottom line of any organisation. Basically, these vices serve to attenuate optimum pursuit of organizational goals; they limit organizational ability to economize on scarce resources, including information processing and decision-making capability, in transaction cost terms; they promote information hoarding, opportunism, bounded rationality and distortions. The associated negative publicity of corporate fraud breeds high reputational risks, stifles business prospects, and threatens business survival. These are the core transactional issues on which a comparative assessment of the rise of fraud examination and forensic accounting in Africa turns.

Corruption is rife in state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and government agencies which have become a conduit by Government officials, legislators and politicians to divert funds through inflated contracts, bloated staff strength, and overpriced procurement of goods and services. The fraudulent monies would then be laundered into the financial system through concealed deposits in private pseudonym accounts, ‘non-existent corporate’ accounts, purchase of real estate, or donations to political parties, religious bodies and charities involved in the scheme. (Herbert, Tsegba, Ene and Onyilo 2017:2) Nowadays, the audacity of corruption is not just an act of the mind but a deliberate one perpetrated with total disregard for the law and its consequences. As fraudsters have become more dangerously creative with devastating consequences, so has the configuration of fraud investigation become increasingly sophisticated with encouraging results. Forensic accounting, which has evolved to combat the growing rate and economic consequences of fraud and abuse, financial crimes and corruption, encapsulates specialized knowledge and specific skills to stumble up on the evidence of economic transactions. (Joshi, 2003).

Traditional accountants, however effective they may be, are not necessarily forensic accountants. The global economic consequences of recent accounting scandals juxtaposing the increasing spate of fraud and corruption have occasioned new national and international antifraud and anti-money laundering legislations. These have created a huge demand for fraud investigation and forensic accounting work. Increasingly, many professional accountancy firms are establishing specialized fraud examination and forensic accounting units to keep up with the workload. At the same time, organizations and government agencies are finding it difficult to recruit experienced and highly skilled forensic accountants and fraud examiners. (Herbert et al. 2017:5) This last point will be developed in the next paragraph. This paper is addressing the need for forensic accountants with the public finance management reforms. The need and the definition of forensic accounting will be developed. The public financial management is discussed along with various actions for an effective implementation.

Keywords: public finance, management, reforms, forensic accounts, accountability, separation of functions

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Forensic Account in Public Finance Management (September 11, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3247698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3247698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners
Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2005
W E Herbert , I N Tsegba , E E Ene , F Onyilo
The Rise of Fraud Examination and Forensic Accounting in Africa: The Nigerian Experience
Archives of Business Research , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2017
Crossref
W E Herbert
Culture and Economic Security in Africa: Remodelling the Options
Policy Brief , issue 3 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,192
RANK
451,432
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies