Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Welcome to the Gray Zone: Shades of Honesty and Earnings Management

62 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2018 Last revised: 20 Dec 2020

Pascale Lapointe‐Antunes

Brock University - Faculty of Business

Kevin J. Veenstra

McMaster University - DeGroote School of Business

Kareen Brown

Brock University - Goodman School of Business

Heather Li

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 15, 2020

Abstract

We examine the influence of face-based judgments of CFO and CEO honesty on earnings management for the largest publicly traded companies in America. After controlling for incentives and opportunities to manage earnings, CFOs perceived to be less honest engage in higher levels of accruals earnings management and real earnings management. The beneficial impact of perceived honesty on earnings quality is most pronounced when both the CFO and the CEO are perceived to be more honest. Findings are consistent with our conjecture that both the CFO and CEO contribute to a firm’s financial reporting environment.

Keywords: Upper echelons theory, earnings management, Honesty-Humility, face-based judgments.

JEL Classification: D22, D91, M12, M14, O51

Suggested Citation:

Lapointe-Antunes, Pascale and Veenstra, Kevin J. and Brown, Kareen and Li, Heather, Welcome to the Gray Zone: Shades of Honesty and Earnings Management (December 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3260712 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3260712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,540
RANK
307,529
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies