Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Any Justification for Creative Accounting: Where Are Fraud, Examiners?

26 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2018

Prof. Godwin Emmanuel Oyedokun

Lead City University Ibadan Nigeria ; OGE Professional Services Ltd; Nasarawa State University, Keffi

Date Written: October 16, 2018

Abstract

The slippery slope is described as ‘playing the system’, ‘beating the system’, and fundamentally neglecting the laid down rules, regulation within the system for selfish reasons. This presentation revealed the justification, ethical or otherwise for creative accounting, aggressive earnings management and related concepts as it affects the professional judgement of fraud examiners. The role of fraud examiners is put to light in ensuring that the users of financial statements are not continued to be put in the dark with respect to the state of the concerned company. This presentation also explores both positive and negative side of Creative accounting and revealed the consequences of the same within the context of fraud examination and financial reporting structures. It is concluded that The use of aggressive accounting techniques may not necessarily be fraudulent. However, it may be the start of a slippery slope, where legitimate earnings management descends into earnings manipulation or fraudulent accounting. This presentation recommends that fraud examiners should take seriously the ACFE code of ethics in resolving the allegation of fraudulent activities as may also concern creative accounting by seeing the bigger picture.

Keywords: Aggressive accounting, Creative accounting, Earnings management, Fraud examination, Fraudulent financial statement

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Oyedokun, Godwin Emmanuel, Any Justification for Creative Accounting: Where Are Fraud, Examiners? (October 16, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3272415 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3272415
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,059
RANK
95,735
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies