Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting the Fifty Shades of Grey: Local Crime, Suspicious Transaction Reporting and Anti-Money Laundering Regulation

BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2018-93

22 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2018 Last revised: 23 Mar 2020

Lucia Dalla Pellegrina

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS)

Giorgio Di Maio

University of Insubria - Department of Economics

Donato Masciandaro

Bocconi University - Department of Economics; Bocconi University - Department of Economics (ECO)

Margherita Saraceno

University of Pavia - Department of Law

Date Written: March 2020

Abstract

This study investigates the efficiency of the suspicious transaction reporting (STR) activity to a Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) as a means to deter money laundering (ML). Baseline and two-province theoretical models are used to frame the empirical analysis. The latter examines the relationship between STR and the vulnerability of Italian provinces to ML from 2009 to 2013. Instrumental variables and spatial analysis are exploited to identify the role of STR on vulnerability. The results provide a positive assessment of the risk-based mechanism of reporting suspicious operations to the FIU, although “congestion” problems from overreporting are observed.


Keywords: Money laundering; Suspicious transaction reporting; Vulnerability

JEL Classification: K14; K20; K42

Suggested Citation:

Dalla Pellegrina, Lucia and Di Maio, Giorgio and Masciandaro, Donato and Saraceno, Margherita, Detecting the Fifty Shades of Grey: Local Crime, Suspicious Transaction Reporting and Anti-Money Laundering Regulation (March 2020). BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2018-93, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3280307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3280307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,034
RANK
264,473
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

BAFFI Centre on Economics, Finance & Regulation Research Paper Series

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies