Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Accounting in the Prevention of Corruption: Perception of Experts from Bosnia and Herzegovina

2015 ENTRENOVA Conference Proceedings

8 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2018

Benina Veledar

School of Economics and Business Sarajevo

Date Written: September 10, 2015

Abstract

Corruption in the public sector is problem that almost all countries in the world face with, in greater or lesser extent. During couple of past years, Bosnia and Herzegovina has had a constant growth of corruption. According to the Corruption Perception Index, Bosnia and Herzegovina has moved from 72nd position in 2013 to 80th position in 2014, with scores that had led it nearly to zones with high levels of corruption. Due to the fact that corruption in the public sector discourages innovation and entrepreneurship, and thus leaves extremely harmful effects on the entire economy of the country, at the end of 2013 research was conducted on a sample of 208 public officials and experts in the fields of accounting and auditing. The objective of the research was to determine the extent to which specific accounting tools can contribute to the suppression, or at least reducing, corruption in the public sector of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Research results showed that implementation of the program budgeting and responsibility accounting, through the efficient allocation of scarce budgetary resources between programs and the establishment of public accountability, can help the fight against corruption, improve the business climate and innovations, and thus contribute to the development of the whole country.

Keywords: program budgeting, responsibility accounting, corruption, public sector, innovation, Bosnia and Herzegovina

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Veledar, Benina, The Role of Accounting in the Prevention of Corruption: Perception of Experts from Bosnia and Herzegovina (September 10, 2015). 2015 ENTRENOVA Conference Proceedings, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3281918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3281918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,364
RANK
682,509
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies