Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud-Perception, Superegos, and Cultural Spread of Unethical Behaviour: Theory and Evidence from Enron

37 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2018

Richard J. Fairchild

University of Bath - School of Management

Oliver Marnet

University of Southampton

Date Written: November 13, 2018

Abstract

In recent years, the corporate sector has been rocked by managerial fraud and scandals. In this paper, we analyse, employing a behavioural and psychoanalytical game theoretic approach, two particular phenomena that may lead to managerial fraud in the corporate sector: a) the tendency for fraud to start on a small scale, perceived by perpetrators as insignificant and inconsequential, but which may ‘mount up’ over time to large cumulative fraud. b) Formerly ethical managers becoming ‘infected’ by the behaviour of unethical managers within an organisation. We consider a simple model in which a manager commits a series of small frauds over time (initially perceived as insignificant). At some critical point the frauds accumulate to a magnitude where they ‘activate’ the manager’s superego. At that point, guilt looms large, which may be sufficient to motivate the manager to cease his fraudulent behaviour, and to admit to previous indiscretions. However, if regret dominates, the manager may be ‘entrapped’ into continuing to further hide fraud. In a second version of the model, we consider an organisation consisting of two managers: one ethical/non-fraudulent and one unethical/fraudulent. We consider how the unethical manager’s behaviour may ‘infect’ the ethical manager, so that the latter is induced to commit fraud, due to the unethical culture of the organisation. We employ our theoretical analysis to help to understand a real-world fraud case (Enron) in which fraud began at small individualistic levels, but quickly escalated and became institutionalized throughout the organization, destroying the company. We conclude with policy and ethical implications, and suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Corporate fraud, Behavioural Economics, psychoanalysis, game theory

Suggested Citation:

Fairchild, Richard J. and Marnet, Oliver, Fraud-Perception, Superegos, and Cultural Spread of Unethical Behaviour: Theory and Evidence from Enron (November 13, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3283883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3283883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
G A Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
N P Anastasopoulos , M P Anastasopoulos
The Evolutionary Dynamics of Audit
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 216 , issue 2 , p. 469 - 476 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Ariely
Predictably Irrational Posted: 2008
Crossref
S E Asch
Effects of Group Pressure Upon the Modification and Distortion of Judgement
Groups, Leadership and Men , p. 220 - 226 Posted: 1951
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,533
RANK
157,252
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies