Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Electronic Banking on Detection of Fraud in Nigerian Banking

International Journal of Research in Finance and Marketing (IJRFM), Vol. 8 Issue 9, September - 2018

14 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2018

C. Emefiele

University of Calabar (UNICAL) - Department of Banking and Finance

E. N. Obim

University of Calabar (UNICAL) - Department of Banking and Finance

S. E. Nkamare

University of Calabar (UNICAL) - Department of Banking and Finance

Date Written: September 2018

Abstract

The study empirically examined the impact of electronic banking on detection of fraud in Nigeria banking system. The specific objectives were; to examine the Impact of ATM, Internet, mobile and POS on Fraud Detection in Nigeria. Primary sources of data was used and it is comprised of questionnaire, interview and observation. Desk survey method was adopted in this study to gather relevant information. Chi square statistical analysis was adopted in this study. Based on the analysis the following findings revealed thus; there was a significant impact between Automated teller machine and fraud detection of selected banks in Nigeria, there was a significant impact between Internet banking and fraud detection of selected banks in Nigeria, there was a significant impact between mobile banking and fraud detection of selected banks in Nigeria and there was a significant impact between Point of sales and fraud detection of selected banks in Nigeria. The following recommendations were made for the study. Banks should organize seminars/workshops on the awareness of electronic banking to people in the rural area and customers who find it difficult to make use of their ATMs for transaction and also let them know the benefit that accrues from using electronic banking. Also it is recommended that customers should be protected from the internet hackers, tight security should be put in place to ensure that customers information are not easily available to information hackers.

Keywords: ATM, Internet, mobile, POS, Fraud Detection

Suggested Citation:

Emefiele, C. and Obim, E. N. and Nkamare, S. E., Impact of Electronic Banking on Detection of Fraud in Nigerian Banking (September 2018). International Journal of Research in Finance and Marketing (IJRFM), Vol. 8 Issue 9, September - 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3293711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S Akinlola
The adoption of e-banking: The Case of Omani Banks
International Review of Business Research , volume 4 , issue 5 , p. 120 - 128 Posted: 2008
M J Diamond
Do European Primarily Internet Banks Show Scale and Experience Efficiencies?
European Financial Management Posted: 1984
J Bhattacharya , I Thakor
Do European primarily internet banks show scale and experience efficiencies?
European Financial Management , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 643 - 671 Posted: 1993
I Freixas , M J Rochert
Is the internet delivery Channel Changing Banks' Performance? The Case of Spanish Banks
Banco de Espana Working Paper Series , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 624 - 630 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
RANK
289,981
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Monetary Economics: Financial System & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies