Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fighting Organized Crime by Targeting their Revenue: Screening, Mafias and Public Funds

BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2018-98

62 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2018 Last revised: 17 Mar 2022

Gianmarco Daniele

University of Milan - Faculty of Law; Bocconi University

Gemma Dipoppa

Brown University, Political Science

Date Written: January 2, 2022

Abstract

Repressive policies to fight criminal organizations are often met with a violent response
from criminal groups. Are non-repressive strategies more effective? Targeting criminal revenues
can be a powerful tool if the threat of investigation is credible and if criminals are unable to
displace their activity to avoid controls. We study an Italian policy designed to tackle mafia
misappropriation of public funds by screening companies applying for subsidies over 150,000
Euros. Using all subsidies to firms co-financed by the European Union from 2008 to 2015, we find
that a group of firms starts self-selecting below the threshold immediately after its introduction.
Those firms are concentrated in mafia-affected cities, are lower performing, operate in typical
mafia sectors and have balance sheet indicators of money laundering. While avoiding violence,
non-repressive strategies might have different unintended consequences: criminal organizations
react with an immediate strategic displacement which reduces states’ capacity to detect them,
highlighting the importance of designing policies that anticipate the sophistication of criminal
organizations.

Suggested Citation:

Daniele, Gianmarco and Dipoppa, Gemma, Fighting Organized Crime by Targeting their Revenue: Screening, Mafias and Public Funds (January 2, 2022). BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2018-98, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3299552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3299552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Guerino Ardizzi
Money laundering as a crime in the financial sector: A new approach to quantitative assessment, with an application to Italy
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 46 , p. 1555 - 1590 Posted: 2014
John Ashworth , Bruno Heyndels
Reference point effects in local taxation: It all depends on how you look at it
Proceedings. Annual Conference on Taxation and Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the National Tax Association , volume 92 , p. 335 - 341 Posted: 1999
Guglielmo Barone , Gaia Narciso
Organized crime and business subsidies: Where does the money go?
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 86 , p. 98 - 110 Posted: 2015
Pietro A Bianchi
Is it Worth Having the Sopranos on Board? Corporate Governance Pollution and Organized Crime: The Case of Italy Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,366
RANK
127,186
5 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

BAFFI Centre on Economics, Finance & Regulation Research Paper Series

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies