Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Multiple Perspective View to Rampant Fraudulent Culture in the Indian Insurance Industry

Agarwal, R. (2018). A multiple perspective view to rampant fraudulent culture in the Indian insurance industry. International Journal of Indian Culture and Business Management, 16(4), 416-437.

Posted: 2 Jan 2019

Dr Ruchi Agarwal

Independent; ISB

Date Written: December 14, 2018

Abstract

Insurance fraud is a complex term understudied in management and governance literature. Insurance fraud consists of policyholder fraud, internal fraud and intermediary fraud. It can be measured at four stages ranging from hard frauds to rampant fraudulent culture. An attention is needed to understand the reasons of rampant fraudulent culture in India. This is the first study (as per author's knowledge) on fraudulent culture in Indian insurance industry that provides broad overview of what insurance fraud is, types of insurance fraud, role of different parties involved, reasons of rampant insurance frauds, strategies adopted and the way forward. The results revealed that direct responsibility of combating insurance fraud is not provided to any institutions, therefore fraud redressal takes a backseat in priorities. Corporates have adopted proactive, reactive and vigilant approaches and used fraud investigation cells, cause and effect analysis and trend analysis to understand the fraudulent culture.

Keywords: corporates, insurance fraud, India, culture, case study, risk

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Ruchi and Agarwal, Ruchi, A Multiple Perspective View to Rampant Fraudulent Culture in the Indian Insurance Industry (December 14, 2018). Agarwal, R. (2018). A multiple perspective view to rampant fraudulent culture in the Indian insurance industry. International Journal of Indian Culture and Business Management, 16(4), 416-437., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3301096
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
881
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies