Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Electronic Banking Related Fraud on Deposit Money Banks Financial Performance in Nigeria

Discovery, 54(276), 496-503 (2018)

8 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2019

Adaora Immaculata Muoghalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University

Jisike Jude Okonkwo

Nnamdi Azikiwe University

Amalachukwu Ananwude

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Banking and Finance

Date Written: November 30, 2018

Abstract

This study empirically ascertained the effect of electronic banking related fraud on deposit money banks financial performance in Nigeria. Empirical studies relating electronic banking and banks performance in Nigeria has been centred on its benefit of improving profitability of deposit money banks while the effect of fraud perpetrated on electronic banking platforms used by banks operating in the economy are often neglected. Specifically, we examined the effect of electronic banking related fraud on automated teller machines, mobile banking, point of sale terminals and web to return on assets, return on equity, interest income and non-interest income of deposit money banks. Comprehensive data on fraud on the various electronic banking channels from the apex regulatory agency of the banking system: Central Bank of Nigeria began in 2013 thus limiting the study to a period of four years. The Ordinary Least Square (OLS) was applied in estimating the regression equation, whereas effect of fraud on various channels of electronic banking and financial performance ascertained with the help of the granger causality analysis. The findings from the study dispelled that fraud on point of sale terminals has significant negative effect on interest income, while fraud on automated teller machines, mobile banking and web had no effect on return on assets, return on equity and non-interest income of banks. we suggested that there is need for deposit money banks to further authenticate transactions on point of sale terminal by sending confirmation code to mobile number linked to the account to affirm that the transaction was initiated the original cardholder.

Keywords: Fraud, Banks, Financial Performance

Suggested Citation:

Muoghalu, Adaora Immaculata and Okonkwo, Jisike Jude and Ananwude, Amalachukwu, Effect of Electronic Banking Related Fraud on Deposit Money Banks Financial Performance in Nigeria (November 30, 2018). Discovery, 54(276), 496-503 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3305555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Abdulrasheed , I S Babaita , M B Yinusa
Fraud and its implications for bank performance in Nigeria
International Journal of Asian Social Science , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 382 - 387 Posted: 2012
A A Aliyu , B R Tasmin , J Takala
A critical examination of online banking scam in Nigeria: Kano metropolis in view
Proceedings international conference of technology management, business and entrepreneurship Posted: 2012-12-19
B Chelangat
The effect of fraud on financial performance of deposit taking savings and credit co-operative societies in Kenya Posted: 2014
C M Ekwueme , P A Egbunike , A Okoye
An empirical assessment of the operational efficiency of electronic banking: evidence of Nigerian banks
Review of Public Administration & Management , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 108 - 138 Posted: 2012
Load more
3 Citations
Kwadwo Boateng
The Impact of Digital Banking on the Profitability of Deposit Money Banks: Evidence From Ghana
Dr. Boateng K., and Dr. Nagaraju Y. (2020). The impact of digital banking on the profitability of deposit money banks: Evidence from Ghana. International Journal of Research in Finance and Management, International Journal of Research in Finance and Management Vol. 3, Issue 1, Pp. 144 -150 · 7 Pages · Posted: 23 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 1,423
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gideon Ezu , Kenechukwu Origin Chukwu
Effect of Electronic and Non-Electronic Fraud on Performance of Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria
The International Journal of Business & Management, Vol 10 Issue 2, February, 2022 · 6 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2022 · Downloads: 3
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ibrahim Abubakar Sani , John Aiyedogbon , Ezie Obumneke
Electronic Payments System and Banking Industry's Return in Nigeria: A Time-Varying Granger Causality Approach
23 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 59
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,886
RANK
123,063
3 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies