Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Paying for Altruism: An Investigation of Deontic Justice and Financial Rewards on Taxpayers’ Whistleblowing

2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

38 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2019 Last revised: 1 Apr 2019

Leslie Berger

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Jonathan Farrar

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Linda Thorne

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: March 30, 2019

Abstract

Historically tax authorities have relied upon taxpayers’ intrinsic desire for deontic justice to motivate whistleblowing of tax fraud. Deontic justice involves holding a third party morally accountable for their unfair actions. Yet recently, tax authorities have offered financial rewards for whistleblowing likely under the assumption that financial rewards always increase taxpayers’ motivation to blow the whistle. This assumption flies in the face of motivational crowding theory. Motivational crowding theory predicts that when financial incentives reinforce intrinsic motivation they increase individuals tendency to act, but when financial rewards undermine individuals’ intrinsic motivation they decrease individuals’ tendency to act. In other words, motivational crowding theory suggests that the effect of financial rewards depends upon the interplay between intrinsic and extrinsic motivation in affecting taxpayers’ motivation to blow the whistle. Accordingly, we develop predictions integrating deontic justice theory and motivational crowding theory and test our predictions using a 2 x 2 between-subjects fully crossed experiment with 399 taxpayers. We find that moral outrage – an emotional reaction resulting from one’s desire for deontic justice – mediates taxpayers’ tendency to blow the whistle, which is conditional upon financial rewards. Financial rewards augment (diminish) higher (lower) levels of moral outrage. Thus, our findings suggest that financial rewards appear to increase taxpayers’ whistleblowing of morally significant infractions and decrease taxpayers’ whistleblowing of morally insignificant infractions. Implications for practice and theory are discussed.

Keywords: whistleblowing, deontic justice, financial rewards

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Berger, Leslie and Farrar, Jonathan and Thorne, Linda, Paying for Altruism: An Investigation of Deontic Justice and Financial Rewards on Taxpayers’ Whistleblowing (March 30, 2019). 2019 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318272 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3318272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
L Berger , S Perreault , J Wainberg
Hijacking the moral imperative: How financial incentives can discourage whistleblower reporting
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2017
Crossref
C D Beugré
Resistance to socialization into organizational corruption: A model of deontic justice
Journal of Business and Psychology , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 533 - 541 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C D Beugré
Development and validation of a deontic justice scale
Journal of Applied Social Psychology , volume 42 , issue 9 , p. 2163 - 2190 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Bobek , R Hatfield , K Wentzel
An investigation of why taxpayers prefer refunds: A theory of planned behavior approach
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 111 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
RANK
538,134
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies