Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Experimental Study on Potential Whistleblowing Intentions: A Dilemma of Fairness and the Risk of Reporting

37 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2019

Yusuke Sawada

Doshisha University, Faculty of Commerce, Graduate School of Commerce

Yoshitaka Hirose

Osaka Metropolitan University

Satoshi Taguchi

Doshisha University

Date Written: January 6, 2019

Abstract

We experimentally examine how the power distance in a conspiracy affects the potential whistleblowing motivation of those who are illegally involved. To test our hypotheses, we employed a 2 (wrongdoer) x 2 (power distance) between-participants experiment using the Amazon’s Mechanical Turk (AMT) platform by examining the mechanism of whistleblowing in a more realistic setting through matching the conspiracy and power distance, which were treated separately in previous studies. The results reveal that a fairness–risk of reporting tradeoff occurs especially in the conspiracy relationship between a superior and his/her subordinate. Our study sheds light on importance to design an incentive mechanism that lowers the risk of reporting and inspires fairness against conspiracies.

Keywords: Fraud; Whistle blowing; Power distance; Conspiracy; Amazon Mechanical Turk

Suggested Citation:

Sawada, Yusuke and Hirose, Yoshitaka and Taguchi, Satoshi, An Experimental Study on Potential Whistleblowing Intentions: A Dilemma of Fairness and the Risk of Reporting (January 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3321561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Q7
What is your gender? (1 = female, 0 = male, 2 = other (Prefer not to say
Q8
What is your age? Q9. What is the length of your work experience? (year) Electronic copy available at
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity Economics: How Our Identities Shape Our Work, Wages, and Well-Being Posted: 2010
C Albrecht , D Holland , R Malagueño , S Dolan , S Tzafrir
The role of power in financial statement fraud schemes
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 803 - 813 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,600
RANK
257,340
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies