Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Optional Qualitative Assessment in Impairment Tests

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3322166

56 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2019 Last revised: 4 Nov 2021

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Jake Krupa

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 28, 2021

Abstract

Current international and U.S. accounting standards mandate a one-step quantitative impairment test for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles, but U.S. standards allow firms to perform a qualitative assessment before the quantitative test. The qualitative assessment, called “Step 0”, is intended to reduce the complexity and costs of the quantitative test in cases where the probability of impairment is low. This assessment is unique because it grants firms an unconditional option and depends on subjective qualitative judgment. We demonstrate that U.S. firms using this option have comparatively higher valuations and face higher expected costs for conducting quantitative tests. Next, using a difference-in-differences research design, we show that firms using this option have a marginally higher incidence of impairments, suggesting that the qualitative assessment does not systematically allow companies to avoid write-downs. Moreover, we do not find consistent evidence that using this option decreases the timeliness of impairments or increases monitoring costs for auditors, regulators, and investors. Our study provides evidence about the consequences of a revised impairment approach and speaks to the broader issue of allowing unconditional options and qualitative judgments in financial reporting.

Keywords: Goodwill; intangibles; impairment; qualitative assessment; ASC 350; SFAS 142; ASU 2011-08

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Black, Dirk E. and Krupa, Jake and Minutti-Meza, Miguel, The Optional Qualitative Assessment in Impairment Tests (October 28, 2021). University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3322166, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3322166 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3322166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Accounting Principles Board. (APB)
APB , volume 16 Posted: 1970
K Adame
Step Zero: Determinants and implications of reliance on the qualitative goodwill impairment assessment Posted: 2019
D Ayres , J Campbell , J Chyz , J Shipman
Do financial analysts compel firms to make accounting decisions? Evidence from goodwill impairments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 1214 - 1251 Posted: 2019
D Ayres , T Neal , L Reid , J Shipman
Auditing goodwill in the post-amortization era: Challenges for auditors
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 107 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,442
RANK
210,853
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies