Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating Complex Financial Crime: A Case Study Inspired by the Polly Peck PLC Fraud

Journal of Harmonized Management Research, 4 (4), pp. 124-135

12 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2019

Paul Eisenberg

University of Derby; University of Portsmouth

Date Written: October 09, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to illustrate a financial fraud investigation by the way of a case study inspired by the famous Polly Peck PLC fraud case. After exploring the features of an investigation plan, false accounting and theft charges are explained and exemplified. Various techniques of tracing the crime proceeds are analysed, as well as investigative models and methods to provide evidence.

Methodologically, economic fraud investigations are discussed through an in-depth literature review. The investigative models applied are characterised by Data Mining techniques (Decision Trees, Neural Networks and Benford’s law) as well as the Net Worth Method, the Bank Deposit Method, the Specific Item Method and Digital Link Analysis.

The case study shows that Benford’s law and Neural Networks, together with the Specific Item Method can render results admissible in criminal court in cumbersome financial fraud cases involving several jurisdictions and complex banking arrangements.

Keywords: Financial Fraud Investigation, Data Mining, Benford’s Law, Neural Networks, Specific Item Method

JEL Classification: K13, K14, K41, K42, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Eisenberg, Paul, Investigating Complex Financial Crime: A Case Study Inspired by the Polly Peck PLC Fraud (October 09, 2018). Journal of Harmonized Management Research, 4 (4), pp. 124-135, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324273 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3324273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
B A Apostolou , J M Hassell , S A Webber , G E Sumners
The Relative Importance of Management Fraud Risk Factors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M H Bazerman , D A Moore , P E Tetlock , L Tanlu
Reports Of Solving The Conflicts Of Interest In Auditing Are Highly Exaggerated , volume 31 , p. 43 - 49 Posted: 2006
Crossref
• Beecher-Monas , E
Corporate governance in the wake of Enron: an examination of the audit committee solution to corporate fraud
Administrative Law Review , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 357 - 392 Posted: 2003
A • Bryman
Social Research Methods Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Dila A. Agrizzi , Prem Sikka , Colin J. Haslam , Orthodoxia Kyriacou
The State of UK Professional Accountancy Education: Professionalising Claims
CRAAG Working Paper No. 05-09 · 34 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2005 · Downloads: 266
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
841
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,695
RANK
66,484
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies