Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Incurred Loss to Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL): A Forensic Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses in Unconditionally Cancelable Credit Card Portfolios

Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, WP 19-08, January 2019

41 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2019

José J. Canals-Cerda

Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia

Date Written: January 31, 2019

Abstract

The Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) framework represents a new approach for calculating the allowance for credit losses. Credit cards are the most common form of revolving consumer credit and are likely to present conceptual and modeling challenges during CECL implementation. We look back at nine years of account-level credit card data, starting with 2008, over a time period encompassing the bulk of the Great Recession as well as several years of economic recovery. We analyze the performance of the CECL framework under plausible assumptions about allocations of future payments to existing credit card loans, a key implementation element. Our analysis focuses on three major themes: defaults, balances, and credit loss. Our analysis indicates that allowances are significantly impacted by specific payment allocation assumptions as well as downturn economic conditions. We also compare projected allowances with realized credit losses and observe a significant divergence resulting from the revolving nature of credit card portfolios. We extend our analysis across segments of the portfolio with different risk profiles. Interestingly, less risky segments of the portfolio are proportionally more impacted by specific payment assumptions and downturn economic conditions. Our findings suggest that the effect of the new allowance framework on a specific credit card portfolio will depend critically on its risk profile. Thus, our findings should be interpreted qualitatively, rather than quantitatively. Finally, the goal is to gain a better understanding of the sensitivity of allowances to plausible variations in assumptions about the allocation of future payments to present credit card loans. Thus, we do not offer specific best practice guidance.

Keywords: expected credit losses, allowances, unconditionally cancelable, revolving credit, credit loss

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Canals-Cerda, José J., From Incurred Loss to Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL): A Forensic Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses in Unconditionally Cancelable Credit Card Portfolios (January 31, 2019). Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, WP 19-08, January 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3326831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Piu Banerjee , José J. Canals-Cerda
Credit Risk Analysis of Credit Card Portfolios Under Economic Stress Conditions
FRB of Philadelphia Working Paper No. 12-18 Pages: 46 Posted: 29 Jul 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test 2018: Supervisory Stress Test Methodology and Results Posted: 2018-06
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, National Credit Union Administration, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Frequently Asked Questions on the New Accounting Standard on Financial Instruments -Credit Losses Posted: 2016-06-17
Regulatory Capital Rules: Implementation and Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses Methodology for Allowances and Related Adjustments to the Regulatory Capital Rules and Conforming Amendments to Other Regulations," proposed rule by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on May 14 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,929
RANK
229,218
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies