Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Incentive Framing and Descriptive Norms on Internal Whistleblowing

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 34, No. 4, 2017

40 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2019 Last revised: 11 Apr 2019

Clara Xiaoling Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Jennifer E. Nichol

Northeastern University

Flora H. Zhou

Bentley University

Date Written: June 22, 2017

Abstract

Firms are under increasing pressure to implement effective internal whistleblowing systems. While firms can provide incentives to encourage internal whistleblowing, it remains controversial how such incentives should be structured. We examine whether the effectiveness of incentives encouraging internal whistleblowing is a joint function of the framing of such incentives (reward or penalty) and the strength of descriptive norms supporting internal whistleblowing. We predict and find in a lab experiment that penalties lead to a greater increase in internal whistleblowing (compared to rewards) when descriptive norms supporting whistleblowing are stronger. Our study contributes to the previous accounting literature on dishonesty and the role of management control systems design in promoting honesty and ethical norms in organizations. We also contribute to an emerging accounting literature on the links between controls, norms, and individual behavior by distinguishing between descriptive norms and injunctive norms and by highlighting the interplay between these two types of norms. Our results have important implications for organizations considering adopting incentives to encourage internal whistleblowing.

Keywords: rewards, penalties, internal whistleblowing

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Clara Xiaoling and Nichol, Jennifer and Zhou, Flora H., The Effect of Incentive Framing and Descriptive Norms on Internal Whistleblowing (June 22, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 34, No. 4, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3327651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Agresti
Categorical Data Analysis. 2 Posted: 2002
I Ajzen
Attitudes, Personality, and Behavior Posted: 1988
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior. Organizational Behavior and Decision Processes , volume 50 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
S E Asch
Effects of group pressure upon the modification and distortion of judgment
Groups, Leadership, and Men , p. 177 - 190 Posted: 1951
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,657
RANK
564,093
12 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies