Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Content Analysis of Organizations’ Internal Whistleblowing Policies

56 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2019

Lei Gao

University of North Florida

Alisa Gabrielle Brink

Virginia Commonwealth University

Date Written: March 5, 2019

Abstract

Section 406 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) requires that U.S. public firms disclose their adoption of a code of ethics that includes formal whistleblowing procedures. Public companies listed on NYSE or NASDAQ are also required to prepare this disclosure. Formal whistleblowing policies guide employees through the ethical decision-making process and promote reporting unethical behaviors. Authoritative bodies have prescribed whistleblowing guidelines, such as the Council of Europe Resolution 1729 (COER) and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Guidelines on Whistleblowing. However, there is no conclusive evidence of the effectiveness of firms’ whistleblowing policies on reporting behavior, and prior research calls for further investigations into the design and implementation of effective internal whistleblowing policies. Through a whistleblowing procedures framework, we performed a content analysis of 50 whistleblowing policies to analyze the content characteristics and linguistic characteristics of public firms’ whistleblowing policies. Results of this study identify trends and patterns within whistleblowing policies. Key findings include that firms prefer employees to report to their supervisor. However, there is little discussion of supervisors’ responsibilities after receiving reports. Also, the use of words expressing uncertainty is highest when companies describe disciplinary actions in response to wrongdoing. Further, readability analysis suggests that companies’ whistleblowing policies are difficult to read, and sections relating to investigation procedures, wrongdoer disciplinary actions, and anti-retaliation policies are relatively more difficult to read than the rest of the policy content. We discuss implications for firms with the aim of improving the effectiveness of stated whistleblowing procedures.

Keywords: whistleblowing policy, anti-retaliation policy, content analysis, readability, language uncertainty

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Lei and Brink, Alisa Gabrielle, A Content Analysis of Organizations’ Internal Whistleblowing Policies (March 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3347181 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3347181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Brink , F Rankin
The Effects of Risk Preference and Loss Aversion on Individual Behavior under Bonus, Penalty, and Combined Contract Frames
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 25 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C X Chen , J E Nichol , F H Zhou
The effect of incentive framing and descriptive norms on internal whistleblowing
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Chun
How virtuous global firms say they are: A content analysis of ethical values
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2017
Crossref
D V Cicchetti
Guidelines, Criteria, and Rules of Thumb for Evaluating Normed and Standardized Assessment Instruments in Psychology
Psychological Assessment , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 284 - 290 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,283
RANK
172,502
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies