Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Engagement Triggers in Forensic Accounting and Fraud Investigation Classes

Posted: 8 Apr 2019

Norbert Tschakert

Salem State University; Salem State University

Zlatinka Blaber

Bertolon School of Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Lisa Chen

Bertolon School of Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 15, 2019

Abstract

Engagement triggers are tools that capture students’ attention and direct it to a new topic or to the day’s lecture. By focusing on cartoons and short online videos, two examples of engagement triggers, the authors demonstrate how to use innovative and engaging online resources to enliven the forensic accounting and fraud investigation classroom. To achieve this objective, the authors present resources that are useful in the teaching of forensic accounting and fraud investigation. While cartoons often utilize humor and wit to convey a message or provide social critique, online videos illustrate fraud cases and their investigation, thereby demonstrating class concepts in practice.

Keywords: engagement triggers, forensic accounting

Suggested Citation:

Tschakert, Norbert and Tschakert, Norbert and Blaber, Zlatinka and Chen, Lisa, Using Engagement Triggers in Forensic Accounting and Fraud Investigation Classes (March 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3353115
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
936
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies