Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Financial Reporting Misconduct Pay Off Even When Discovered?

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

70 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2019 Last revised: 7 Apr 2020

Dan Amiram

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Serene Huang

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: February 5, 2020

Abstract

Experts and popular belief contend that it pays to engage in financial misconduct. We hand collect data on three subsamples of severe misconduct cases, between 2003 and 2016: a sample of 37 (100) SEC enforcement actions (class action lawsuits) that explicitly allege fraud and a sample of 100 restatements with the most negative stock price reaction in which investors presumably suspect fraud. We then compare estimates of the benefits from reporting misconduct to top managers against estimates of the costs of its discovery. We find that 32.9% of perpetrators experience an overall net benefit from discovered misconduct. The percentage of officers who benefit is highest for the restatement subsample (43.5%), followed by the class action lawsuit subsample (27.7%), and is the lowest for the SEC enforcement subsample (8.1%). Stated differently, if we assume that the probability of detection is 31% as conjectured in the prior literature, more than half of the perpetrators in our sample would find it beneficial to engage in financial reporting misconduct. Hence, our evidence suggests that financial reporting misconduct can pay off for a significant portion of the perpetrators. We discuss several implications of our results to academics, practitioners and policymakers.

Keywords: misconduct, fraud, misreporting, penalty, cost benefit, SEC, restatements, class action lawsuits

Suggested Citation:

Amiram, Dan and Huang, Serene and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Does Financial Reporting Misconduct Pay Off Even When Discovered? (February 5, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3353823 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3353823
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
K Hennes , A Leone , B Miller
The Importance of Distinguishing Errors from Irregularities in Restatement Research: The Case of Restatements and CEO/CFO Turnover
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1487 - 1519 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Jenter , F Kanaan
CEO Turnover and Relative Performance Evaluation
The Journal of Finance , volume LXX , issue 5 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J M Karpoff , D S Lee , G S Martin
The Consequences to Managers for Financial Misrepresentation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , p. 193 - 215 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Karpoff , A Koester , D S Lee , G S Martin
Proxies and Databases in Financial Misconduct Research
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 6 , p. 129 - 163 Posted: 2017-11
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,572
RANK
220,473
10 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies