Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Representations and Warranties Insurance in Mergers and Acquisitions

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2019 Last revised: 22 Nov 2024

Omri Even-Tov

Haas School of Business - UC Berkeley

James Ryans

London Business School

Steven Davidoff Solomon

University of California, Berkeley - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 2022

Abstract

To mitigate information asymmetry in acquisitions, the seller makes contractual representations
and warranties (referred to as “R&W” or “reps”) about the state of the target, such as attesting to
the accuracy of the target’s financial statements. While seller indemnities allow buyers to impose
costs due to breaches in the reps discovered after the deal’s close, these indemnities involve
significant contracting costs. To mitigate these costs, the acquisition parties have increasingly
turned to purchasing representations and warranties insurance. Using a proprietary and novel
sample of R&W insurance policies issued worldwide for acquisitions of non-public targets, we
find that the demand for R&W insurance, the premium charged for it, and the likelihood of a claim
being filed are correlated with industry metrics for valuation uncertainty, the type of acquirer and
seller, and the target’s legal regime. In particular, we find higher demand for R&W insurance and
a higher R&W insurance premium charged when the target belongs to an industry with weaker
internal controls. We also find that a higher premium is charged when the target is in an industry
with relatively high levels of R&D to sales, indicating that the insurance company expects
unrecognized intangible assets to have a greater risk of future claims. Our study adds to our
understanding of how parties reduce target valuation uncertainty and the role of disclosures and
R&W insurance policies in private mergers and acquisitions transactions.

Keywords: information asymmetry, representations and warranties, insurance, valuation uncertainty, mergers and acquisitions, seller indemnities

JEL Classification: D82, G22, G34, K12, K22, K41, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Even-Tov, Omri and Ryans, James and Davidoff Solomon, Steven, Representations and Warranties Insurance in Mergers and Acquisitions (August 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3361184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3361184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J Cox , Q Dupont , J Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
T Bates , J Neyland , Y Wang
Financing acquisitions with earnouts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , p. 374 - 395 Posted: 2018
M Beneish , M Billings , L Hodder
Internal control weaknesses and information uncertainty
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 665 - 703 Posted: 2008
S Betton , B E Eckbo , K Thorburn , B E Eckbo
Corporate takeovers
Handbook of Corporate Finance: Empirical Corporate Finance Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,131
RANK
40,543
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies