Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review on Satyam Computer Failure Lessons for Corporate Governance and World

11 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2019 Last revised: 22 Jun 2019

Vividha Gurung

Shoolini University, Students

Chander Gupta

Shoolini University; Tashkent State University of Economics

Date Written: April 11, 2019

Abstract

Satyam scam has been the greatest scam in the history of corporate world of the India. Satyam is the fourth largest IT Company in India. The CEO of the company has made a scam of around $2 billion; it appears that corporate accounting fraud is a major problem that is increasing both in its frequency and severity. The Satyam scam shockwaves also impacted the entire auditing structure of Indian Corporate world. The scam has added to a notorious list of companies involved in fraudulent financial activities, one that includes such names as Enron, WorldCom, Societe General, Parmalat, The increasing rate of white-collar crimes demands stiff penalties, exemplary punishments, and effective enforcement of law with the right spirit. The fraud committed by the founders of Satyam in 2009, is a testament to the fact ― the science of conduct is swayed in large by human greed, ambition, and hunger for power, money, fame and glory. In the aftermath of the Satyam scandal, that has tested the efficacy of corporate governance norms in India; the existing framework fails to satisfactorily address the shortcomings in the prevailing regime. The Satyam scandal highlights the importance of securities laws and corporate legislation in emerging markets. Indeed, Satyam fraud spurred the government of India to tighten the corporate legislation norms to prevent recurrence of similar frauds in future. Satyam scandal has had a deep impact on how we construe “Corporate Governance”. Though it is well recognized that corporate governance is about “transparency”, “efficacy” and “accountability” but now the concerns are about the changing paradigm of corporate governance. Thus, major financial reporting frauds need to be studied for “lessons-learned” and “strategies-to-follow” to reduce the incidents of such frauds in the future.

Keywords: Satyam Computers, Corporate Governance, Accounting, Auditing Standards, Accounting Frauds, Corporate Frauds

Suggested Citation:

Gurung, Vividha and Gupta, Chander, A Review on Satyam Computer Failure Lessons for Corporate Governance and World (April 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3370291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3370291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Madan Lal
Corporate Accounting Fraud: A Case Study of Satyam Computers Limited
Open Journal of Accounting , volume 2 , p. 26 - 38 Posted: 2013
Elisabetta Basilico , Grove , Hugh , Lorenzo Patelli
Asia's Enron: Satyam (Sanskrit Word for Truth)
Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 Posted: 2012
Tabrez Ahmad , Tabrez , Malawat , Yashovardhan Kochar , Ayan Roy
Satyam Scam in the Contemporary corporate world: A case study in Indian Perspective
IUP Journal Posted: 2010
S Rama Chadran
Raju brings down Satyam, shakes India. Asia Times Online Ltd Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,457
RANK
14,108
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies