Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and the Scandal: The Impact in Firms-Specific and Macroeconomic Factors.

20 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Lily Norshahkira Mohd Hidir

universiti utara malaysia

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

This research was performed to determine the relationship between the corporate governance index with the firms-specific factors and determine relationship between the corporate governance index with the macroeconomic factor. The company that being selected to analyze the two factor is the Toshiba which will carried out the data from annual report for 5 years which is from 2013 until 2017. The Tobin Q as the dependent variable will study the relationship with the independent variables which is the corporate governance index, Return on Equity (ROE), Return on Asset (ROA), Altman Z, unemployment rate, exchange rate, inflation rate and gross domestic product (GDP). The enter method was used to obtain the regression analysis. Based on the analysis shows that the inflation rate was the most influence towards the data.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Index (CGI), Inflation Rate

Suggested Citation:

Mohd Hidir, Lily Norshahkira, Corporate Governance and the Scandal: The Impact in Firms-Specific and Macroeconomic Factors. (May 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385215 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385215
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
S Bhagat , B Bolton
Corporate governance and firm performance: The sequel
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2019
Crossref
N Elghandour , T Adel
Corporate Social Responsibility Measurement: Case Study on Toshiba Corporation Posted: 2016
Young Sang Kim , Hoje Jo , Sang Mook Lee
The Effect of Internal and External Corporate Governance on Dual Class Firms
Financial Stability Studies, Vol. 17, No. 2, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation(KDIC), 2016, pp. 113-171. Posted: 10 Aug 2017 Last revised: 10 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Othman , R Ameer , F Laswad
Forensic Auditing Tools in Detecting Financial Statements' Irregularities: Benford's Law and Beneish Model in the Case of Toshiba
Organizational Auditing and Assurance in the Digital Age , p. 256 - 275 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
RANK
377,290
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies