Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Scandal and the Probability of Bankruptcy : A Case Study of Mylan N.V

20 Pages Posted: 31 May 2019

Ivan Dwiputra Tarliman

Independent

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

The probability of bankruptcy can be seen with the corporate scandal which happened by the company itself. The corporate should be more concerned in implementing the good corporate governance. This study use the Mylan’s N.V scandal to conducting the analysis which happens in 2016. on This study aims are to investigate the corporate scandal and relate it into the probability of bankruptcy of the company, identify the factors asscociated with probability of bankruptcy of the company and also helps company prevent from the bankruptcy which happened by the failure corporate governance which based on the findings and suggestion.

This study conducts the analysis with collecting the corporate governance index, Tobin’s Q,Altman Z, Revenue of Assets, Revenue of Equity, which is based on the annual report of Mylan N.V and the Unemployment rate, GDP per Capita, and in the company’s nation based. which starts from 2014 untill 2018, because the scandal was happened in 2016 so it needs 2 years before the scandal and 2 years after the scandal happened.After the data has been collected those data will be processed with the SPSS, software from IBM.

This study findings and anlysis which based on the tables shows that the equity has the most strongest relationship probability of bankruptcy in other words the equity can gives affect for the probability of bankruptcy. This Study suggests that the company should carefully in implementing good corporate governance which is also based on the code of their nations.Also the company to add the experienced private equity funds to decrease the potential of bankruptcy.

Keywords: Corporate, Scandal,Probability, Bankruptcy, Equity, Govenance, Index, Implementing

Suggested Citation:

Tarliman, Ivan Dwiputra, The Corporate Scandal and the Probability of Bankruptcy : A Case Study of Mylan N.V (May 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
I F Awolowo , N Garrow , M Clark , D Chan
Accounting Scandals: Beyond Corporate Governance
Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing , p. 397 - 403 Posted: 2018-08
A A Azeez
Corporate Governance and Firm Performance: Evidence from Sri Lanka
Journal of Finance and Bank Management , p. 180 - 189 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Sanjai Bhagat , Brian J. Bolton
Corporate Governance and Firm Performance
Pages: 58 Posted: 28 Sep 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Dignam , M Galanis
Corporate Governance and the Importance of Macroeconomic Context
Oxford Journal of Legal Studies , p. 201 - 243 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,208
RANK
572,087
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies