Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Effectiveness of Internal Audit Units in Addressing Bank Fraud. Evidence From the Greek Banking System

28 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2019

Georgios Vousinas

National Technical University of Athens

Date Written: October 28, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of Internal Audit (IA) units of major Greek banks in addressing fraud. The research methodology implemented is a qualitative survey applying a self-structured, properly designed questionnaire, comprised of twenty targeted questions, using the five-point Likert scale. The findings of the study showed that Greek banks’ IA units are well organized in terms of established policies and procedures, existing internal control mechanisms and risk assessment. On the other hand, weaknesses are identified in matters of proper usage of Computer Assisted Audit Techniques (CAATs), establishing a well-designed open-door policy and in the existence of an ongoing anti-fraud training for all the IA staff. The results of the study also provide useful findings on the operation of IA units and offer invaluable insights to banks’ managements as for further enhancing IA procedures in the endless fight against fraud.

Keywords: Internal Audit, bank fraud, effectiveness, Greek banking system, crisis

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Vousinas, Georgios, Assessing the Effectiveness of Internal Audit Units in Addressing Bank Fraud. Evidence From the Greek Banking System (October 28, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3391532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3391532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Idowu Abiola
An Assessment of Fraud and its Management in Nigeria Commercial Banks
European Journal of Social Sciences , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 628 - 640 Posted: 2009
I Ahmed , M Madawaki , F Usman
Managing Bank Fraud and Forgeries Through Effective Control Strategies. A Case Study of Central Bank of Nigeria, Gombe Branch
International Journal of Business and Management Invention , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 7 - 17 Posted: 2014
S K Asare , R A Davidson , A A Gramling
Internal Auditors' Evaluation of Fraud Factors in Planning an Audit: The Importance of Audit Committee Quality and Management Incentives
International Journal of Auditing , volume 12 , p. 181 - 203 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J L Bierstaker , J Hunton , J C Thibodeau
Does Fraud Training Help Auditors Identify Fraud Risk Factors?
Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research , volume 15 , p. 85 - 100 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,137
RANK
434,412
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies