Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Money Laundering and Lawyer Regulation: The Response of the Professions

Fordham International Law Journal, Vol. 43, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Jun 2019 Last revised: 2 Aug 2019

Delphine Nougayrède

Columbia Law School

Date Written: June 15, 2019

Abstract

The extension of anti-money laundering (AML) controls to lawyers has been a controversial topic since the early 2000s. The legal professions facing these measures have adopted differentiated strategies of response, three examples of which are examined and contrasted in this paper. In the US, the legal profession vocally objected to the measures and has been able to deflect any legislative action. In the United Kingdom, the profession pragmatically engaged with the new rules, while in France the profession has made maximum use of the levers of self-regulation allowed by the European directives. The paper presents AML lawyer-regulation as an example of the versatility of global regulatory norms, which do not necessarily evict national traditions. It also views the EU as the real bedrock of AML regulatory diffusion and questions US professional (and academic) resistance to these norms.

Keywords: anti-money laundering, regulation of the legal professions, gatekeeper, ABA, legal ethics

Suggested Citation:

Nougayrède, Delphine, Anti-Money Laundering and Lawyer Regulation: The Response of the Professions (June 15, 2019). Fordham International Law Journal, Vol. 43, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3404583 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3404583
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Legal Ethics & Professional Responsibility eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies