Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Audit or Forensic Audit? - Government Sector Panorama

Indian Journal of Corporate Governance (Journal of Indian Institute of Public Enterprise), Forthcoming

Posted: 25 Jun 2019

Rajat Deb

Tripura University

Date Written: December 31, 2018

Abstract

The study has been motivated to assay the selective stakeholders’ perceptions on whether the government financial audit has been converted into forensic audit. Adopting a cross-sectional study design with survey strategy through a self-administered interview schedule with a 50-item inventory, data has been collected from randomly chosen 120 sample respondents having equal representations from two groups — current and retired government employees and businessmen of Tripura. The significant statistical results have concluded that corruption and accounting slacks have important impacts on the government audits, and the latter if used in an appropriate manner are likely to detect frauds and catalyse in bringing accounting reforms.

Keywords: government audit, forensic audit, survey, fraud, India

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Rajat, Financial Audit or Forensic Audit? - Government Sector Panorama (December 31, 2018). Indian Journal of Corporate Governance (Journal of Indian Institute of Public Enterprise), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406859
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
673
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies