Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Insight into Consequences of Non-Compliance or Colorable Compliance of Corporate Governance

INSPIRA-Journal of Modern Management & Entrepreneurship, Vol. 04 No. 04, pp.135-143, 2014

9 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2019 Last revised: 15 Mar 2020

Devendra Jarwal

University of Delhi

Anoop Vyas

Devi Ahilya University (DAVV)

Date Written: April 1, 2014

Abstract

Non-Compliance of Corporate Governance means not adhering to the code of Corporate Governance. The non-compliance is not very serious because in case of non-compliance it is simple to identify the offender and penalize him, the serious matter is colorable compliance. The colorable compliance means, on paper it is inferred that code of corporate governance is adhered but actually it is not so hence it become very difficult to whom to rectify and what to rectify. Colorable compliance of Corporate Governance also leads to ineffectiveness of the corporate governance code. The non-compliance or colorable compliance of corporate governance standards is one of the primary factors resulting in corporate frauds or scandals. The corporate frauds in India occurred in recent times have resulted from a flagrant disregard of and non-compliance with the Indian Corporate Governance regime. Properly constituted audit committees and other committees play an important role in the sustained growth of a corporation and eliminate the corporate frauds. The colorable compliance with corporate governance norms often perceived in the entities dominated by the family members. Therefore, this paper is an attempt to highlight the state of non-compliance of corporate norms and factors responsible for colorable compliance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Colorable Compliance

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Jarwal, Devendra and Vyas, Anoop, An Insight into Consequences of Non-Compliance or Colorable Compliance of Corporate Governance (April 1, 2014). INSPIRA-Journal of Modern Management & Entrepreneurship, Vol. 04 No. 04, pp.135-143, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3411115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
I M Badawi
Global Corporate Accounting Frauds and Action for Reforms
Review of Business , volume 26 Posted: 1997
Black
Shareholders Activism and Corporate Governance in the United States
The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics and the Law , volume 3 , p. 459 - 65 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M J Conyon , S I Peck
Board Control, Remuneration Committees and Top Management Compensation
Academy of Management Journal , volume 41 , p. 145 - 157 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Jairus Banaji
Institutional Investors and Nominee Directors Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Devendra Jarwal
Declaration of Dividend According to the Companies Act 2013 Along with Applicable Provisions of the Companies Act 1956
In New Dimensions in E-Governance (pp. 51-60). INSPIRA Research Association, 2018 · 10 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 388
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,303
RANK
534,717
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies