Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Personal Beliefs and Values Affect an Individual’s 'Fraud Morality'? Evidence from the World Value Survey

Journal of Business Ethics, Issue 177, pp. 463–489, February 2022.

Posted: 15 Jul 2019 Last revised: 18 Apr 2024

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Natalia M. Mintchik

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 10, 2020

Abstract

We introduce the concept of fraud morality, validate such conceptualization by prior studies in economics and criminology as well as by our own independent tests, and explore the relationship of fraud morality with numerous cultural attributes using data from the World Values Survey. Applying partial least squares path modeling, we find that people with stronger self-enhancing (self-transcending) values exhibit lower (higher) fraud morality. Further, respondents who believe in the importance of hard work exhibit higher fraud morality, and such beliefs mediate the relationship between locus of control and fraud morality. Finally, we find that people prone to traditional gender stereotypes demonstrate lower fraud morality and document subtle differences in the influence of these cultural attributes across age and gender groups. Our study contributes to research on the fraud triangle, accounting ethics, and corporate governance.

Keywords: fraud; ethics; fraud triangle; fraud morality

JEL Classification: A13; G02; M40; M42; M49

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Warren Robert and Mintchik, Natalia M., Do Personal Beliefs and Values Affect an Individual’s 'Fraud Morality'? Evidence from the World Value Survey (December 10, 2020). Journal of Business Ethics, Issue 177, pp. 463–489, February 2022., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3419825
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,147
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies