Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Phishing E-mails Reveal: An Exploratory Analysis of Phishing Attempts Using Text Analyzes

36 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2019

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: July 26, 2019

Abstract

Phishers appear particularly interested in accounting and tax, with accountants and auditing firms as frequent targets because of the proximity to organizational resources. Since phishing is typically done using emails, we use text analysis to explore differences between phishing emails and other emails. Analyzing and comparing a database of phishing messages to a database of the Enron emails, we find that the phishing data is statistically significantly different across a large number of univariate text variable categories. Further, we generate a model of phishing as “power.” Using power as the dependent variable, independent variables of friend (who they pretend to be), achievement (of their goal), (to take your) money and (typically done at) work are used as a basis to estimate power in both the phishing and non-phishing messages and finds differences on the signs of the independent variables. Finally, using the output of a text analysis, we examine the ability of neural network models to differentiate between phishing emails and Enron emails, using size-matched samples.

Keywords: Phishing, Sentiment Analysis, Python NLTK, Text Analysis, LIWC

JEL Classification: M, Y

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., What Phishing E-mails Reveal: An Exploratory Analysis of Phishing Attempts Using Text Analyzes (July 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3427436 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3427436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Accenture
Cost of Cyber Crime Study Posted: 2017
Aicpa
Beware of Phishing Scams Posted: 2017
P Allison
When Can You Safely Ignore Multicollinearity? Available at Posted: 2012
A Aggarwal , A Rajadesingan , P Kumaraguru
PhishAri: Automatic realtime phishing detection on twitter , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,238
RANK
140,123
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies