Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combating Financial Crimes: The Role of Accountants and External Auditors (A Study of First Bank of Nigeria Plc)

Proceedings of 5th Annual International Academic Conference (2019, April)

13 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2019

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Faith Erinma Onyebuenyi

Faculty of Management Sciences National Open University of Nigeria Lagos

Amaechi Egbunike

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

Financial crimes are on the increase in the financial sector despite the deployment of modern evolving technologies. This has created a need for the anatomy of financial crimes in the banking sector as this study focused on the role of accountants and external auditors in combating financial crimes in the financial sector. First Bank of Nigeria Plc was selected as a case study. The data collection technique used for this study is questionnaire. The respondents are made up of management staff, accountants and compliance officers of First Bank of Nigeria Plc. Data was analyzed through the use of simple percentages, tables, and Pearson Correlation Coefficient statistical method was employed for testing the hypotheses. The findings of this work revealed that accountants and external auditors play indispensable roles in fraud detection. Also, the existence of fraud in the organization is due to poor management oversight, ineffective internal control system and corruption. Based on these findings, it is recommended that First Bank of Nigeria Plc should ensure continuous policy and strategy reinvention aimed at effective and efficient management. Management should continually engage the services of qualified and experienced external auditors and put in place an effective internal control system, continuously enhanced to deliver on purpose. Finally, education, proper enlightenment and above all self-discipline are recommended to step down the level of financial crimes in the financial institutions in Nigeria.

Keywords: audit, detection, financial crimes, financial statements, fraud

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Onyebuenyi, Faith Erinma and Egbunike, Amaechi, Combating Financial Crimes: The Role of Accountants and External Auditors (A Study of First Bank of Nigeria Plc) (June 30, 2019). Proceedings of 5th Annual International Academic Conference (2019, April), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3428098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
982
RANK
439,204
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies