Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the Kirkpatrick Model for Evaluating Judicial Trainings: Insights from the Conduct of PHILJA’s Seminar-Workshops on Financial Crimes and Money Laundering

Posted: 10 Sep 2019

Cheselden George V. Carmona

Ateneo de Manila University Law School; Government of the Republic of the Philippines - Philippine Judicial Academy

Date Written: October 2017

Abstract

Using the Kirkpatrick’s Training Evaluation Model, the paper examines the adequacy of PHILJA's pre and post-training evaluation approach in assessing the effectiveness of its Seminar-Workshops on Financial Crimes and Money Laundering. The paper finds out that while the series of training had been a success in terms of "customer’s satisfaction" and enhancing competence, the training evaluation used by PHILJA was insufficient to really assess the effectiveness of judicial trainings, especially when viewed within the context of the larger judicial reform effort of the Supreme Court.

Suggested Citation:

Carmona, Cheselden George V., Using the Kirkpatrick Model for Evaluating Judicial Trainings: Insights from the Conduct of PHILJA’s Seminar-Workshops on Financial Crimes and Money Laundering (October 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3446773
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
559
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies