Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inconsistencies Signals from the Declared Patrimony of Politicians in Brazil: Application of Newcomb-Benford Law

22 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2019

Jonatas Sallaberry

UFSC - PPGC

Leonardo Flach

Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Mauricio Mello Codesso

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Luiz Fernando Rodrigues

Catholic University of Brazil (UCB)

Date Written: September 5, 2019

Abstract

Goal: This research aims to seek evidence of inconsistencies or signs of fraud or other financial crimes in the assets declared by candidates for political office by applying the Newcomb-Benford Law (NB).

Theoretical foundation: The mainly empirical research is based on the ability of asset information to be useful to the analysis of economic and financial facts as well as in the NB Law capacity signal potential distortions in the statement of assets, considering the observed distribution and the expected.

Method: Law applies to NB, in relation to the first digit values of goods, compared with the distribution observed distribution expected from statistical tests and indicators (Nigrini, 2012). In the second stage, the digits are analyzed by differing relevance and the amount of deviation value (Bugarin & Cunha, 2015). The application of the criteria set by the NB and the average deviation identifies the items of potentially inconsistent declared goods.

Results: The first digit analysis identified six discrepant digits, two of which differ in quantities exceeding the waiting. In detail, after application of the methods, these digits it identified assets potentially inconsistent first digit values, including cash declared in cash in foreign and national currency, as a typical estate use in money laundering.

Contributions: search results demonstrate the application of the utility of NB Law to control agencies in the search for evidence of goods with potentially inconsistent or fraudulent values, and advances beyond the indication of convergence to NB to reveal the different items within the sample.

Keywords: Newcomb-Benford law; Fraud; elections; Cash

JEL Classification: C40, C50, C60, C80

Suggested Citation:

Sallaberry, Jonatas and Flach, Leonardo and Mello Codesso, Mauricio and Fernando Rodrigues, Luiz, Inconsistencies Signals from the Declared Patrimony of Politicians in Brazil: Application of Newcomb-Benford Law (September 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3448476 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3448476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
E Avis , C Ferraz , F Finan
Do government audits reduce corruption? Estimating the impacts of exposing corrupt politicians
Journal of Political Economy , volume 126 , issue 5 , p. 1912 - 1964 Posted: 2016
Crossref
E Avis , C Ferraz , F Finan , C Varjão
Money and politics: The effects of campaign spending limits on political competition and incumbency advantage
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Barkemeyer , L Preuss , L Lee
Corporate reporting on corruption: An international comparison
Accounting Forum , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 349 - 365 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D F Barros , J F R Sauerbronn , E A T Ayrosa
Representações do eleitor: revendo teorias e propondo novos caminhos
Revista de Administração Pública , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 477 - 491 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Karthik Natashekara
Candidate Self-Disclosure: A Benford’s Law Analysis
32 Pages · Posted: 8 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 3 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,157
RANK
478,373
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies