Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality Determinants and the Relation of Fraud Detection

International Journal of Civil Engineering and Technology 10(3), 2019, pp. 1447–1460

14 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2019

Haryono Umar

Perbanas Insitute, Jakarta, Indonesia

Erlina Erlina

Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia

Ayu Fauziah

Universitas Trisakti, Jakarta, Indonesia

Rahima Br. Purba

Universitas Pembangunan Panca Budi, Medan, Indonesia

Date Written: September 20, 2019

Abstract

The research aimed to evaluate the influence of independence and competence of an auditor on fraud detection capability with audit quality as the intervening variable. Based on the result of the research, it shows that independence of an auditor has no effect on audit quality, while auditor competencies positively affect audit quality. Meanwhile, audit quality has a positive effect on the fraud detection. The auditor independence has a positive effect, whereas auditor competencies have no effect on the fraud detection. Meanwhile, Auditor independence and auditor competence have no indirect effects on the fraud detection through audit quality.

Keywords: independence, competence, fraud detection, audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Umar, Haryono and Erlina, Erlina and Fauziah, Ayu and Br. Purba, Rahima, Audit Quality Determinants and the Relation of Fraud Detection (September 20, 2019). International Journal of Civil Engineering and Technology 10(3), 2019, pp. 1447–1460, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3457115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Y Asmara
Effect and Motivation of the Quality of Audit: survey on the external auditor register accounting firm in Jakarta Indonesia
European Journal of Auditing and Financial Research , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2016
I A Biksa , I D N Wiratmaja
Pengaruh Pengalaman, Independensi, Skeptisme professional auditor pada Pendeteksian Kecurangan Posted: 2016
H Dwirendra
Analisis Pengaruh independensi, kompetensi dan akuntabilitas auditor internal terhadap kualitas hasil audit Posted: 2015
Crossref
I Ghozali
Aplikasi Analisis Multivariete dengan Program IBM SPSS 23 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,585
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,546
RANK
26,718
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Industrial & Manufacturing Engineering eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies