Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Flow Restatements: Stock Market Reaction to Overstated versus Understated Restatements

Alfonso, E., D. Hollie, and S. Yu. 2019. Cash Flow Restatements: Stock Market Reaction to Overstated versus Understated Restatements. Accounting and Finance Research. Vol. 8 (3) p.1-15.

Posted: 28 Oct 2019

Elio Alfonso

Florida International University

Dana Hollie

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Shaokun Carol Yu

Northern Illinois University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission has become increasingly concerned with the rising number of restatements to statements of cash flows (SCFs). Regulators and practitioners are generally more focused on the overstatement of operating cash flows, while the understatement of operating cash flows is often overlooked but may have the same (or more) negative economic consequences. We examine market reactions to cash flow restatements (CFRs) where firms overstate or understate cash flows from 2000 to 2013. This study finds that 41% of firms overstated operating cash flows, while a surprising 48% understated operating cash flows. While we find that the market does not react to overstated operating cash flows or overstated total cash flows (TCFs), we find a negative response to understated operating cash flows and understated TCFs. Interestingly, the market penalizes these firms more for understating rather than overstating cash flows. There is a CFR disclosure post-announcement drift in abnormal returns that occurs for both understated operating and understated TCFs. We provide evidence that the often-overlooked understated CFRs may have “real” economic consequences and that they should be evaluated further and given the same consideration as overstatements by auditors, regulators, and investors.

Keywords: cash flow restatements, cash flows, cash flow misclassifications, statement of cash flows

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Alfonso, Elio and Hollie, Dana and Yu, Shaokun Carol, Cash Flow Restatements: Stock Market Reaction to Overstated versus Understated Restatements (May 1, 2019). Alfonso, E., D. Hollie, and S. Yu. 2019. Cash Flow Restatements: Stock Market Reaction to Overstated versus Understated Restatements. Accounting and Finance Research. Vol. 8 (3) p.1-15., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472088
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
781
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies