Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Accounting Complexity and the Choice of Accounting Methods on Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence From the Oil and Gas Industry

Barber. R. and D. Hollie. 2019. The effects of accounting complexity and the choice of accounting methods on financial reporting quality: Evidence from the oil and gas industry. Journal of forensic & Investigative Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 31 Oct 2019 Last revised: 28 Jul 2020

Russell Barber

University of Colorado Denver

Dana Hollie

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 1, 2019

Abstract

This study examines whether the financial reporting quality of oil and gas firms differs for firms that use successful efforts versus full cost accounting methods. Successful efforts is generally perceived as a more complex method, while full cost is perceived as a less complex method. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) considers reducing unnecessary complexity in financial reporting a benefit to all FASB stakeholders. This study provides additional insights into the discussion on accounting complexity and financial reporting quality. Using restatements as a proxy for financial reporting quality, we find that firms using successful efforts (the more complex method) have better financial reporting quality, as shown by a lower likelihood of restatements. This study has implications for regulators, investors, auditors, and academics interested in financial reporting quality and the relative association of complexity with financial reporting quality.

Keywords: financial reporting quality; successful efforts; full cost; accounting choice; restatements; accounting complexity

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Barber, Russell and Hollie, Dana, The Effects of Accounting Complexity and the Choice of Accounting Methods on Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence From the Oil and Gas Industry (September 1, 2019). Barber. R. and D. Hollie. 2019. The effects of accounting complexity and the choice of accounting methods on financial reporting quality: Evidence from the oil and gas industry. Journal of forensic & Investigative Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3473011
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
857
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies