Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Type II Subsequent Events Impair Financial Reporting Quality?

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 12 Nov 2019

Keith Czerney

University of Missouri-Columbia; Charles River Associates (CRA) - Finance

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Wei Zhu

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 23, 2019

Abstract

This study examines whether material corporate events that occur during the year-end closing process constrain management’s and the auditor’s resources and inhibit them from providing high quality financial reports. For a sample of U.S. company financial reports issued during 2000–2013, we identify material corporate events using Type II subsequent event footnote disclosures (i.e., material events that occur in year t+1, but prior to the issuance of the year t financial statements, yet do not affect amounts recognized in year t). We find that Type II subsequent events are associated with lower financial reporting quality as measured by the need to subsequently restate the year t financial statements. The increased restatement likelihood only occurs when managers are resource constrained. Auditors can mitigate the increased restatement risk but only when they allocate more resources to the engagement. Our results underscore the importance of resource management in the financial reporting and audit processes.

Suggested Citation:

Czerney, Keith and Schmidt, Jaime J. and Thompson, Anne and Zhu, Wei, Do Type II Subsequent Events Impair Financial Reporting Quality? (October 23, 2019). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3478857
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies