Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud on a Power, Improper Purpose and Fiduciary Accountability

(2019) 62 Canadian Business Law Journal 133

Posted: 15 Jan 2020

Robert Flannigan

University of Saskatchewan

Date Written: December 24, 2019

Abstract

There is a functional difference between fiduciary accountability and the fraud on a power and improper purpose doctrines. The function of the latter two doctrines is to regulate the exercise of authority. Fiduciary accountability, in contrast, regulates opportunism in limited access arrangements. That said, the regulation of authority extends to personal conflicts and benefits that are not authorised. The three doctrines thus are linked in the sense that they may have concurrent, but distinct, application to actions that potentially compromise undertakings to act in the interest of others.

Keywords: fraud on a power, proper purpose, improper purposer

Suggested Citation:

Flannigan, Robert, Fraud on a Power, Improper Purpose and Fiduciary Accountability (December 24, 2019). (2019) 62 Canadian Business Law Journal 133, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3509000
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies