Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Financial Reporting: A Fraud Pentagon Analysis

Acc. Fin. Review 4 (4) 106–113 (2019)

8 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2020

Satria Tri Nanda

Universitas Lancang Kuning, Pekanbaru, Indonesia

Raisya Zenita

Universitas Riau, Pekanbaru, Indonesia

Neneng Salmiah

Universitas Lancang Kuning, Pekanbaru, Indonesia

Date Written: December 31, 2019

Abstract

Objective - The massive and broad impact caused by fraud has made it widely discussed by researchers. Several theories have been developed to explain the cause of fraud. The most recent theory that attempts to explain fraud is pentagon fraud. This study attempts to explain the effect of pentagon fraud on the detection of financial statement fraud in 624 companies listed on the Indonesian stock exchange.

Methodology/Technique - Data from financial statements published in 2018 were analyzed using multiple regression analysis.

Finding - The results of data analysis using E-Views have proven that Pressure, Opportunity, Arrogance and Rationalization have a negative effect on fraudulent financial reporting. However, competence is known to have no significant effect on fraudulent financial reporting.

Novelty - The results suggest that human factors such as pressure, arrogance and rationalization encourage fraudsters to produce fraudulent financial reports. These findings imply that human factors such as pressure arrogance and rationalization are important to be considered in designing any anti-fraud strategy.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Fraud Pentagon; Fraudulent Financial Report; Opportunity, Pressure

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Nanda, Satria Tri and Zenita, Raisya and Salmiah, Neneng, Fraudulent Financial Reporting: A Fraud Pentagon Analysis (December 31, 2019). Acc. Fin. Review 4 (4) 106–113 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3528327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
725
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,170
RANK
80,872
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies