Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Analytics and Skeptical Actions: The Countervailing Effects of False Positives and Consistent Rewards for Skepticism

52 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2020 Last revised: 22 Nov 2024

Dereck Barr-Pulliam

University of Louisville

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Jennifer McCallen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Kimberly Walker

Virginia Tech

Date Written: November 22, 2024

Abstract

We investigate if the calibration of data analytic tools and consistent rewards for skepticism can improve the auditor’s application of professional skepticism when a data analytic identifies a fraud red flag. Using an experiment, we observe that when data analytic tools are better calibrated and false positive rates are lower, auditors are more likely to engage in skeptical actions when confronted with the red flag. Further, rewards fail to increase the choice to act skeptically, but they do improve the intensity and nature of skeptical actions. When false positive rates are lower and rewards are present, auditors engage in more intense and appropriate skeptical actions. In an additional experiment, we explore a setting where data analytics are extremely well calibrated and false positive rates have been reduced to very low levels. As such, the red flag identified by the data analytic is very likely indicative of a misstatement. We observe no incremental effect of rewards or increase in professional skepticism in this setting. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of reducing false positive rates and initiating a change in culture where appropriate skepticism is consistently rewarded for audit firms to more effectively use analytic tools and enhance audit quality.


Keywords: audit, data analytics, false positives, professional skepticism, rewards

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Barr-Pulliam, Dereck and Brazel, Joseph F. and McCallen, Jennifer and Walker, Kimberly, Data Analytics and Skeptical Actions: The Countervailing Effects of False Positives and Consistent Rewards for Skepticism (November 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3537180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3537180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
C Agoglia , R Hatfield , T Lambert
Audit team time reporting: An agency theory perspective , volume 44 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
S B Anderson , J L Hobson , M E Peecher
The joint effects of rich data visualization and audit procedure categorization on auditor judgment. Working paper Posted: 2021
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Big Data and analytics in the modern audit engagement: Research needs. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 36 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
A A Arens , R J Elder , M S Beasley , C E Hogan
Auditing and assurance services: Auditing and assurance services Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
885
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,813
RANK
62,151
9 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies