Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fighting Fraud in Nigeria Banking Industry. An Examination of the Impact of Forensic Auditing

International Journal of Academic Multidisciplinary Research (IJAMR) ISSN: 2643-9670, 2019

11 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2020

Bashir Babatunde Alao

Librod Energy Services Limited

Augustine Nwekemezie Odum

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 31, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the impact and effectiveness of forensic auditing in detecting, investigating, and preventing frauds in digital environment with emphasis on commercial banks in Nigeria. The study sought to find out to what level the forensic auditors are able to fulfill this mandate and investigate problems that hinder forensic auditors to make progress in their operations in Nigeria. It also established the role of forensic auditing in Nigeria banking operations. This paper also discusses four aspects of computer aided fraud detection that are of primary interest to fraud investigators and forensic auditors: data mining techniques for the detection of internal fraud, ratio analysis for the detection of financial statement fraud, the issues surrounding external information sources, and computer forensics during fraud investigations. Questionnaires, personal interviews, and document review are the methods that were used to obtain data for this study. A sample of One hundred and fifty-three respondents from various categories of staff were used from ten commercial banks and four audit firms in Nigeria. The collected data were analyzed using application of non-parametric statistical tests. It was found that the forensic auditing departments suffer from multiple challenges, among them being the lack of material resources, technical know-how, interference from management, and unclear recognition of the profession. In conclusion, forensic auditors must be capacitated materially and technically to improve their effectiveness.

Keywords: Forensic Auditing, Accounting, Fraud, Commercial Banks

JEL Classification: G20

Suggested Citation:

Alao, Bashir Babatunde and Odum, Augustine, Fighting Fraud in Nigeria Banking Industry. An Examination of the Impact of Forensic Auditing (December 31, 2019). International Journal of Academic Multidisciplinary Research (IJAMR) ISSN: 2643-9670, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3539549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
K A Adeyemo
Frauds In Nigerian Banks: Nature, Deep-Seated Causes, Aftermaths And Probable Remedies
Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 279 - 289 Posted: 2012
A Adesola
Government's anti-corruption initiative: The role of computer assisted audit techniques in fraud detection and prevention
Nigeria Accountant , issue 1 Posted: 2008
C C Albrecht , W S Albrecht , J G Dunn
Conducting a ProActive Fraud Posted: 2000
C C Albrecht
Detect lets: A New Approach to Fraud Detection
European Academy of Management at Ljubljana Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,845
RANK
45,343
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies