Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who is to Blame for Fraud? Lawyer Perspectives on Auditor Liability

Posted: 18 Mar 2020 Last revised: 25 May 2022

Jillian Alderman

Pepperdine University - Graziadio School of Business and Management

Date Written: February 22, 2020

Abstract

This study examines how disclosures impact lawyers’ perceptions of independent auditors being sued for failure to detect fraud; specifically whether the auditor’s opinion and disclosures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may be deemed to be red flags and deter litigation. A 3x1 between-subjects experiment was conducted using 100 lawyers specializing in securities or business law. The lawyers reviewed a case in which the auditor had issued an unqualified audit opinion on financial statements of a company that ended up declaring bankruptcy. The lawyers reviewed the auditor’s opinion on internal controls which was manipulated as unqualified, unqualified with description of significant deficiencies, or adverse with description of material weakness. Results of this study indicate that the auditor’s report on controls has the potential to decrease the litigation exposure of auditors, as auditors providing an adverse opinion on internal controls were assessed most favorably by lawyers. However, voluntary disclosures of significant deficiencies in internal controls did not significantly influence auditor litigation exposure, indicating that the stronger message provided by an adverse Section 404 opinion is necessary to decrease litigation exposure. Overall, results of this study provide valuable insights on how audit disclosures influence potential litigators’ decisions and recommendations concerning auditor negligence lawsuits.

Keywords: Fraud, Corporate Law, Auditors, Professional Liability

JEL Classification: M4, K22, K4

Suggested Citation:

Alderman, Jillian, Who is to Blame for Fraud? Lawyer Perspectives on Auditor Liability (February 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3542686 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3542686
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,262
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies