Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Litigation Risk: A Review of Past Perspectives, Recent Developments, and Emerging Issues

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Volume 13: Issue 1 http://s3.amazonaws.com/web.nacva.com/JFIA/Issues/JFIA-2021-No1-2.pdf

Posted: 18 Mar 2020 Last revised: 25 May 2022

Jillian Alderman

Pepperdine University - Graziadio School of Business and Management

Date Written: February 21, 2020

Abstract

This review synthesizes key perspectives and trends in research and practice on the topic of auditor litigation, beginning with the immediate post-SOX era and ending in 2019. Although fears of catastrophic auditor liability in this period have not yet materialized, audit firms may be facing new vulnerabilities. This paper provides a summary of emerging concerns for the near future, with a focus on the outcome of recent court cases, SEC enforcement actions, increased litigation and insurance costs, changes in audit reporting standards, technological advancements, and cybersecurity. Future research is suggested to explore these topics.

Keywords: Auditor Liability, Literature Review, Professional Liability, Internal Controls, Cybersecurity, Sarbanes-Oxley Act

JEL Classification: K2, K4, M4

Suggested Citation:

Alderman, Jillian, Auditor Litigation Risk: A Review of Past Perspectives, Recent Developments, and Emerging Issues (February 21, 2020). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, Volume 13: Issue 1 http://s3.amazonaws.com/web.nacva.com/JFIA/Issues/JFIA-2021-No1-2.pdf , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3542681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3542681
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,189
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies