Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does FOIA Foil the SEC's Intent to Keep Investigations Confidential?

Management Science, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-56

37 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2020

Braiden Coleman

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Joseph Pacelli

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: February 28, 2020

Abstract

The Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) has a long-standing policy to keep formal investigations confidential. In this study, we examine the extent to which compliance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) provides investors with information about on-going SEC investigations. We exploit a unique empirical setting whereby the SEC denies FOIA requests due to ongoing enforcement proceedings (hereafter, exemption denials). We find that exemption denials predict a substantial number of ongoing and future SEC investigations. Exemption denials are also associated with significant negative future abnormal returns, which is consistent with exemption denials providing a noisy public signal that allows certain sophisticated investors to earn future abnormal returns. Overall, our findings suggest that information transparency laws, such as FOIA, have the potential to limit the SEC’s ability to maintain effective and confidential investigations.

Keywords: SEC Investigations, Freedom of Information Act, Exemption Denials

JEL Classification: G18, K22, M48

Suggested Citation:

Coleman, Braiden and Merkley, Kenneth J. and Miller, Brian P. and Pacelli, Joseph, Does FOIA Foil the SEC's Intent to Keep Investigations Confidential? (February 28, 2020). Management Science, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-56, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3545838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Terrence Blackburne , Zahn Bozanic , Bret A. Johnson , Darren T. Roulstone
The Regulatory Observer Effect: Evidence from SEC Investigations
Pages: 74 Posted: 14 Jan 2020 Last revised: 30 May 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Terrence Blackburne , John Kepler , Phillip J. Quinn , Daniel Taylor
Undisclosed SEC Investigations
Management Science, Forthcoming, Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper Pages: 42 Posted: 10 Jan 2020 Last revised: 12 Aug 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Bonsall , E Holzman , B Miller
Busy regulators: The impact of SEC regional office case backlog on the likelihood of an SEC investigation Posted: 2019
K Daniel , M Grinblatt , S Titman , R Wermers
Measuring mutual fund performance with characteristic-based benchmarks
The Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 1035 - 1058 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
714
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,099
RANK
82,481
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies