Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms´ Accounting Misrepresentations - Reasons, Tools and Outcomes

71 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2020 Last revised: 8 Jun 2021

Ingolf Kloppenburg

University of Turku

Date Written: April 30, 2021

Abstract

The current paper investigates and determines the profile of misrepresenting firms through suitable accounting ratios. Moreover, it measures the impact of misrepresentation on the accounting characteristics. Unlike the prior literature, it splits the dataset by the managers’ reason for causing the misrepresentation. The reason is therefore hand-collected from SEC investigation reports and verified by further sources. This enables the identification of the characteristics, and quantification of the impact of the misrepresentation depending on its reason. The research is conducted with statistical tests for significance, and a firth logistic regression (Firth 1993). The results show that there are indeed differences in the characteristics of misrepresenting firms, depending on the reason for the misrepresentation. In total, three main categories of reasons for misrepresentations were identified. One category comprises small, well-performing firms. Here, the data show that the main reason for the misrepresentation is the enrichment of the managers (greed), for example through bonuses. Another category comprises small, almost bankrupt firms. Here, the data show that the managers typically misrepresent to avoid bankruptcy. The third category comprises bigger, well-established firms. Here, the data show that misrepresentation occurs in an effort to handle capital market pressure, for example through analyst forecasts. Moreover, the results suggest that, depending on the reason (and consequently the category), the misrepresentation was made through different accounting components (earnings, total assets, sales, current assets, current liabilities, inventory). The results are generally in line with the positive accounting theory as defined by Watts and Zimmerman (1986), since the results underline the importance of accounting in various contracting situations, such as in negotiating management remuneration systems.

Keywords: earnings quality, financial statement fraud, financial misrepresentation, reason for a misrepresentation, accounting characteristics, AAER

Suggested Citation:

Kloppenburg, Ingolf, Firms´ Accounting Misrepresentations - Reasons, Tools and Outcomes (April 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3575982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3575982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
M Ettredge , S Scholz , K Smith , L Sun
How Do Restatements Begin? Evidence of Earnings Management Preceding Restated Financial Reports
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 37 , issue 3-4 , p. 332 - 355 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Fasb
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154: Accounting Changes and Error Corrections Posted: 2005-04
D Firth
Bias reduction of maximum likelihood estimates
Biometrika , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 38 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Richard M. Frankel , S.P. Kothari , Luo Zuo
Economics of Accounting Earnings
Pages: 217 Posted: 3 Dec 2019 Last revised: 12 Apr 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,412
RANK
282,907
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies