Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A framework of Forensic Accounting Analytics and Pension Fund Administration in Selected Administrations in Liberia

21 Pages Posted: 27 May 2020

Dr. Samora P. Z. Wolokolie

Charisma University

Date Written: April 29, 2020

Abstract

The peril of fraud, corruption, and misfeasance are commonplace and are at the increase globally and, indeed, in Liberia. Thus, forensic accounting or forensic auditing has emerged as a result of the surge in fraud. Accordingly, the aim of this conceptual dissertation / thesis paper is three-fold. First, this paper sought to absorb the art of forensic thinking among auditors; second, it aimed at stimulating and promoting the understanding of basic forensic skills; and third, it aimed at expanding the stock of literature in forensic accounting and audit. Given this broad spectrum of objectives of this paper, characteristics of a forensic auditor were examined and skills as well as objectives of forensic audit were discussed. In the discussion of the application of forensic audit, both reactive and proactive accounting were examined. This is followed by a highlight on the distinction between statutory audit and forensic audit. Detection techniques and steps in conducting forensic audit are also discussed. We shall also conclude that forensic audit practice can reduce the incidence of fraud even in Pension Fund. This paper is part of my PhD requirements at Charisma University, SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC POLICY. I wish to record my thanks and indebtedness to Prof. Ndedi Alain, and Prof. Simon Akinteye whose inspiration, dedication and helping nature provided me the kind of guidance necessary to this project. Dr. Linus Enobi Akepe your immense wealth of knowledge was an inspiration to me to write this piece of work.


Suggested Citation:

Wolokolie, Dr. Samora P. Z., A framework of Forensic Accounting Analytics and Pension Fund Administration in Selected Administrations in Liberia (April 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3588763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3588763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
Henry Aaron
The social insurance paradox
Canadian Journal of Economics and Political Science , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 374 Posted: 1966-08
Crossref
J Abubakar , K Ekundayo
Banks' share prices fall-NSE suspends bailed out banks. Daily Trust Posted: 2009-08-18
F F Adegbie , A S Fakile
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse: 2012 Global Fraud Study
British Journal of Arts and Social Sciences , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 50 Posted: 2012
J Akintunde
Sovereign wealth funds, IMF and Nigeria's excess crude account. Financial Nigeria Posted: 2008-04-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
446
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,775
RANK
148,652
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies