Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comprehensive Analysis of Cyber Data Breaches and Their Resulting Effects on Shareholder Wealth

38 Pages Posted: 28 May 2020

Karen M. Hogan

St. Joseph's University

Gerard T. Olson

Villanova University - School of Business

Michael Angelina

Saint Joseph's University

Date Written: February 2020

Abstract

Cyber Security data breaches are an evolving major risk that corporations, public and private alike, have to contend with as part of their risk management scenarios. Historically, studies evaluating shareholder ramifications of cyber data breaches have been limited by the lack of data available to the public regarding company specific cyber attack details. The few studies that have been done have been mainly limited to sample sizes of only 100 to 200 companies over various time frames with hand collected data. This study uses a comprehensive proprietary data set developed by Advisen Ltd., the leading provider of data, media, and technology solutions for the commercial property and casualty insurance market, to develop a representative sample of almost four thousand separate cases of public companies from all over the world experiencing cyber data breaches during the period 1990 to 2019. Using events study methodology, our results analyze both short term and long term shareholder cumulative abnormal returns around the public first notice date. The results, using the overall sample, do support smaller studies that show significantly negative short run returns for event windows that range from -1 up to 5 days after announcement date. However, our results are lower than many of the original studies that find much higher negative returns with smaller data sets. Segmenting the sample by industry and type of data breach shows a mixture of short run negative results for industries like the highly targeted service companies, while finance companies show an over correction, which result in significant positive short run, returns for investors by day 3 and 5. Returns associated with cyber attacks involving either Personal Financial Information (PFI) or Personal Identity Information (PII) support short run negative returns that are significant, but data related to Personal Health Information (PHI) show a significant overcorrection of short run excess returns. Long term results of the entire sample show significantly negative results for up to 250 trading days from announcement date of up to -7.46%.

Suggested Citation:

Hogan, Karen M. and Olson, Gerard T. and Angelina, Michael, A Comprehensive Analysis of Cyber Data Breaches and Their Resulting Effects on Shareholder Wealth (February 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3589701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3589701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Eli Amir , Shai Levi , Tsafrir Livne
Do Firms Underreport Information on Cyber-Attacks? Evidence from Capital Markets
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming Pages: 52 Posted: 12 Mar 2018 Last revised: 22 Jun 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Liam Bailey
Mitigating Moral Hazard in Cyber-Risk Insurance
J.L. & Cyber Warfare , volume 3 , issue 1 Posted: 2014
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What Matters in Corporate Governance?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Lawrence D Bodin
Cybersecurity Insurance and Risk-Sharing
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 37 , issue 6 , p. 527 - 544 Posted: 2018-11
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Cansu Tayaksi , Erhan Ada , Yigit Kazancoglu , Muhittin Sagnak
The financial impacts of information systems security breaches on publicly traded companies: reactions of different sectors
Journal of Enterprise Information Management , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 650 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Frederic Schlackl , Nico Link , Hartmut Hoehle
Antecedents and consequences of data breaches: A systematic review
Information & Management , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 103638 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Karen M. Hogan
A Global Comparison of Corporate Value Adjustments to News of Cyber Attacks
https://www.virtusinterpress.org/IMG/pdf/jgrv9i2art2.pdf · 11 Pages · Posted: 12 May 2020 · Last revised: 8 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 123
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
752
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,167
RANK
77,170
3 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies