Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Use of Benchmarks to Assess Fraud Risk: The Case for Industry Data

54 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2020 Last revised: 28 Feb 2023

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Keith L. Jones

University of Kansas

Qiyang Lian

University of Kansas, School of Business, Accounting and Information Systems Area, Students

Date Written: March 1, 2023

Abstract

Financial statement auditors, regulators, and researchers are constantly searching for
ways to improve the detection of financial statement fraud. Auditors are required to perform
preliminary analytical procedures with the objective of identifying unusual or inconsistent
relationships between expectations and recorded balances. Auditors use the results of preliminary
analytical procedures when assessing the risk that financial statements are materially misstated
due to fraud. Via a survey of practicing auditors, we find that auditors rely heavily on prior year
balances and relations within the client’s financial data as benchmarks when developing
expectations during planning. Auditing standards describe additional benchmarks, like industry
trends, which are less susceptible to management manipulation. However, our survey results
indicate that auditors are less apt to employ these benchmarks on their engagements. Our
empirical analyses reveal that benchmarks derived from industry data, nonfinancial measures,
and cash flows outperform both prior year balances and relations within the client’s financial
data when assessing fraud risk. Of all the benchmarks suggested by auditing standards, we
observe that the difference between a company’s revenue growth and the revenue growth of its
industry has historically been the best indicator of fraud. When a company reports revenue
growth that substantially exceeds that of its industry, it may be too good to be true, and auditors
should consider increasing their fraud risk assessment and proceeding with skepticism.

Keywords: Analytical Procedures, Audit, Benchmark, Data Analytics, Fraud Risk, Industry

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Jones, Keith Lamar and Lian, Qiyang, Auditor Use of Benchmarks to Assess Fraud Risk: The Case for Industry Data (March 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3591263 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3591263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Abbasi , C Albrecht , A Vance , J Hansen
MetaFraud: A meta-learning for detecting financial fraud
MIS Quarterly , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1293 - 1327 Posted: 2012
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2022. Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit: AU-C Section 240
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J Cox , Q Dupont , J Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
D Amiram , S Huang , S
Does financial reporting misconduct pay off even when discovered?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 25 , p. 811 - 854 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,085
RANK
191,550
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies