Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case of Undetected Fraud: Can Audit Firm Policies or Highlighting the Fraud Examiner’s Role Reduce Juror Assessments of Auditor Negligence?

25 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2020 Last revised: 15 Jun 2020

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Christine Gimbar

DePaul University

Tammie Rech Schaefer

University of Missouri at Kansas City

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 12, 2020

Abstract

This study explores two potential safeguards against liability when auditors exercise professional skepticism, but do not detect a fraud: (1) a firm policy requiring a specific level of professional skepticism in high-risk audit areas and (2) providing jurors with key differences between the role of a fraud examiner and the role of an auditor as a reference point for judging the auditor’s performance. We find that describing a specific firm policy to jurors does not significantly decrease negligence findings for auditors who do not detect a fraud. However, providing the role of a fraud examiner as a reference point (e.g., scope of work, testing approaches) does significantly decrease negligence findings. Encouragingly, we also find some evidence that jurors are apt to decrease negligence findings when auditors exercise higher skepticism, but ultimately do not detect a fraud.


Keywords: audit, fraud, juror, litigation professional skepticism

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Gimbar, Christine and Schaefer, Tammie Rech, The Case of Undetected Fraud: Can Audit Firm Policies or Highlighting the Fraud Examiner’s Role Reduce Juror Assessments of Auditor Negligence? (June 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3596940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3596940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
M D Alicke
Culpable control and the psychology of blame
Psychological Bulletin , volume 126 , issue 4 , p. 556 - 574 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A G Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A G Backof , K Bowlin , B Goodson
The importance of clarification of auditors' responsibilities under the new audit reporting standards. Working paper Posted: 2019
K E Bailey , J H Bylinski , M D Shields
Effects of audit report wording changes on the perceived message
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 355 - 370 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,120
RANK
490,025
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies