Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coins for Bombs: Increased Transparency of the Global Financial System - Evidence from Terrorist Attacks Financing Detection in Blockchain-based Currencies

43 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020 Last revised: 20 Apr 2021

Dan Amiram

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Bjorn Jorgensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Daniel Rabetti

National University of Singapore (NUS); Harvard Business School

Date Written: November 2020

Abstract

The proliferation of blockchain-based cryptocurrencies, which essentially use public accounting ledgers, has two opposing effects related to the global financial system's transparency. On the one hand, governments, market regulators, and financial institutions make significant efforts to curtail the financing of illicit activities that cryptocurrencies may be able to circumvent. On the other hand, funds and transfers that used to be known only by the involved parties are now transparent to anyone with knowledge of blockchain and accounting. This study empirically examines whether it is possible for outsiders to identify evidence of financing international terrorist attacks on public blockchain systems. We do so by utilizing empirical strategies based on accounting and finance literature, forensic accounting, and machine learning algorithms on millions of cryptocurrencies' transfers. We provide evidence that blockchain-based cryptocurrencies are used to finance terrorist attacks. However, the blockchain ledger underlying transparency also enables outsiders to identify the fund trails and predict terrorist attacks.


Keywords: Financial Regulation, Terrorist Financing, Economics of Blockchain, Forensic Accounting, Bitcoin, Ripple

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G29, K29, K42, O16

Suggested Citation:

Amiram, Dan and Jørgensen, Bjørn N and Rabetti, Daniel, Coins for Bombs: Increased Transparency of the Global Financial System - Evidence from Terrorist Attacks Financing Detection in Blockchain-based Currencies (November 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3616207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3616207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The economic costs of conflict: A case study of the Basque country
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Dan Amiram , Evgeny Lyandres , Daniel Rabetti
Trading volume manipulation and competition among centralized crypto exchanges
Pages: 72 Posted: 12 Jan 2021 Last revised: 4 Jun 2024
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K P Arin , D Ciferri , N Spagnolo
The price of terror: The effects of terrorism on stock market returns and volatility
Economics Letters , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 164 - 167 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L S Bamber
The information content of annual earnings announcements: A trading volume approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 40 - 56 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,440
RANK
114,072
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies