Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Misconduct

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2020 Last revised: 9 Feb 2021

Daniel Ferrés

Universidad de Montevideo

Francisco Marcet

University of Chile- School of Economics and Business

Date Written: June 5, 2020

Abstract

We analyze whether price fixing firms modify their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities in anticipation of the revelation of a corporate misconduct. Our paper is the first empirical study to specifically explore the timing and the stability of the new CSR investments in firms involved in corporate misconduct. Our results show that firms that participate in illegal price fixing schemes increase their CSR initiatives around the time when they become the target of an antitrust investigation - not before. Moreover, the new CSR initiatives are mainly concentrated on improving positive CSR rather than in reducing further CSR concerns. Finally, we show that the new CSR efforts are not only associated with lower fines. We find that colluding firms tend to lose sales following a cartel breakup, although the decline in sales is less pronounced for those cartel firms that take anticipatory CSR actions to limit the negative impact of fraud revelation.

Keywords: Fraud; Collusion, CSR, Corporate Scandal

JEL Classification: G30,G34,G39

Suggested Citation:

Ferrés, Daniel and Marcet, Francisco, Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Misconduct (June 5, 2020). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3620443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3620443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
L Aguzzoni , G Langus , M Motta
The effect of eu antitrust investigations and fines on a firm's valuation
The Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 290 - 338 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P Akey , S Lewellen , I Liskovich
Hacking corporate reputations. Rotman School of Management Working Paper Posted: 2018
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
Crossref
J B Baker
The case for antitrust enforcement
Journal of Economic perspectives , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 27 - 50 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,035
RANK
224,339
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies