Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Growing Needs of Forensic Audit in Corporate and Banking Frauds in India

10 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2020

Dr.Dinesh Kumar Gupta

Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology - Department of Business Management

Date Written: July 22, 2020

Abstract

With the gradual rise in money laundering and wilful default cases, RBI has made forensic audit mandatory for large advances and restructuring of accounts. In the present administrative system post Modi regime, no domain is spared from immoral misconduct, fraudulence and injustice. According to a joint study conducted by ASSOCHAM and Grant Thornton, corruption, money laundering, tax evasion, window dressing, financial reporting fraud and bribery are the most common corporate frauds occurring in India Inc. The study revealed that nearly half of corporate frauds have taken place in real estate and infrastructure in the last two years followed by financial services sectors recording 34% frauds.

Scandals in accounting have grown in the last two decades and have put a question mark in corporate governance, role of company secretaries and auditors. The scandals occurred in this 21st century are also putting question on monitoring role of regulators also in some cases. Restoring stake holders’ confidence back in the financial reporting process and corporate governance is also a challenge in view of these developments. Further, the lengthy legal processes also help the criminal companies and borrowers to play with public money as long as they like. Consortium loan process should not be so conducive to give rise to get huge money without security and an easy game to play with public money. Forensic accounting helps the government, regulators and all stakeholders of the companies to have a confidence in dealing with such corporate.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Auditing, Financial Statement, accounting, accounting frauds, forensic

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Dr.Dinesh Kumar, Growing Needs of Forensic Audit in Corporate and Banking Frauds in India (July 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3624001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3624001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Moneycontrol , Com
Posted: 2020-06-02
Crossref
Assocham
Current fraud trends in financial sector Posted: 2015-06
Deloitte
Indian banking fraud survey Posted: 2015-04
Corporate frauds trebled in seven months of FY20, SBI
Business today Posted: 2019-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
679
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,641
RANK
87,973
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies