Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Is the Importance of Financial Reporting from Local Gaap to Ifrs for Companies, and How Can the Accounting Treatment Influence This Factor within Firms’ Valuation Concept?

Multinational Finance Conference Booklet, 27: 25

35 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The paper focuses on the accounting treatment under local GAAP and IAS/IFRS and the concepts of companies that are “implementing IFRS” or those “intending to implement IAS/IFRS” with a focus on companies in the food & beverages industry: alcohol-free beverage sector in Greece and worldwide. Financial statements under IFRS are designed to meet the common needs of a wide range of users. Thus, the need to adopt common rules in the preparation and presentation of financial statements becomes imperative, as the advantages are many in comparison with the local GAAP primarily for listed companies and as an alternative for non-listed companies only if they plan to go list. It highlights future developments and challenges (IFRS for SMEs, New Greek Accounting Standards) that could impact on accounting in the industry, mainly SMEs, in the years to come and it puts things in perspective. The results may help to improve the understanding of IFRS adoption success and quality, focusing on listed companies in the Athens Stock Exchange. The findings also suggest that assessing the firm’s financial performance through its financial statements under IFRS is a crucial stage in the financial information used to generate valuations and stock recommendations.

Keywords: Accounting Treatment, High-Quality Global Standards, Financial Reporting in Regulated markets, Modern Capital Markets, Food & Beverages Industry, Hellenic Exchanges - Athens Stock Exchange S.A., Multinational Company, Assessment

JEL Classification: L66, M41, N40

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria, What Is the Importance of Financial Reporting from Local Gaap to Ifrs for Companies, and How Can the Accounting Treatment Influence This Factor within Firms’ Valuation Concept? (2020). Multinational Finance Conference Booklet, 27: 25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3640353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Χρηματοοικονομική Λογιστική. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Ενοποιημένες Οικονομικές Καταστάσεις. Αθήνα:Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Λογιστικές Εργασίες Τέλους Χρήσεως. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Α Βαζακίδης , Α Σταυρόπουλος , Α Και Χατζης
Λογιστικό Σχέδιο-Μηχανογράφηση Λογιστηρίου. Θεσσαλονίκη Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
577
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,133
RANK
108,519
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies