Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Passive Appreciation in Divorce A Quantitative Measure

JFAR 2020

74 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2020

Ashok Abbott

West Virginia University

Date Written: May 27, 2020

Abstract

Breaking up is hard to do. High net worth marital estates often contain family businesses started or inherited by one or both spouses. The growth in the value of such business interests occurring during the marriage can consist of two components. It may be attributable to environmental factors (passive) or marital efforts and resources (active). Quantifying the passive contribution of economic environment changes during the marriage is a complex task. A substantial body of case law dealing with establishing causation and attributing impact has developed in the torts and class action practice areas. This paper presents this statistically sound, empirically tested, and peer reviewed methodology for estimating the passive (caused by/resulting from external forces) portion of appreciation for a business. This methodology can assist the forensic accountants in identifying pertinent causal factors and quantifying their impact (passive appreciation) on the value of a business during a marriage.

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Ashok, Passive Appreciation in Divorce A Quantitative Measure (May 27, 2020). JFAR 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3655246 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3655246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
B Adrangi , J Macri
Consumer Confidence and Aggregate Consumption Expenditures in the United States
Review of Economics & Finance , volume 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2011
H Akaike
Information theory and an extension of the maximum likelihood principle
Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Information Theory Posted: 1971
Crossref
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
Amaranth Natural Gas Commodities Litigation Posted: 2010-09-30
D H Bell
Equitable Distribution: Implementing the Marital Partnership Theory Through the Dual Classification System
67 Mississippi Law Journal , volume 115 , p. 147 - 149 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,549
RANK
278,438
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Family & Children's Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies