Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Abuse and Fraud Prediction for U.S. Banks: A Comparison of Machine Learning Approaches

20 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2020 Last revised: 28 Jul 2021

Charles Kusaya

Deposit Protection Corporation Zimbabwe

John O'Keefe

Government of the United States of America - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) ; Independent Consultant

Date Written: May 7, 2021

Abstract

We develop empirical models for the detection of insider abuse and fraud occurring at U.S. commercial banks with the goals of identifying leading indicators of fraud and fraud prediction. We use information from enforcement actions taken by bank supervisors to remove offending bank employees and to prohibit employees from working in the banking industry to identify instances of serious insider abuse and fraud. The time period for our analysis is 2007–2019. To the best of our knowledge, these data—bank supervisory enforcement actions—have not been used in previous studies of insider abuse and fraud at banks. The explanatory variables in our models are measures of banks’ capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to market risk.

We model fraud using machine learning models—artificial neural networks, deep learning autoencoder networks, gradient boosting, logit regression and random forests. The models are estimated using observed annual incidences of fraud (no fraud) and four quarters of commercial bank financial data. We use these models to make predictions of the probability of insider abuse and fraud at banks in the following calendar year by applying the estimated (fitted) model the four quarters of bank financial data in the subsequent year. Our results indicate that artificial neural networks, gradient boosting and random forests are, in general, more accurate in out-of-sample forecasts of fraud than are deep learning autoencoder network and logit regression models. In terms of the drivers of fraud the estimates of logit regressions suggest that earning assets and capitalization are negatively related to the fraud while loan loss rates and noncore funding dependence are positively related to fraud.

Keywords: Bank Fraud, Fraud Detection, Machine Learning

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kusaya, Charles and O'Keefe, John, Insider Abuse and Fraud Prediction for U.S. Banks: A Comparison of Machine Learning Approaches (May 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3659757 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3659757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
George A Akerlof , Paul M Romer
Looting: The Economic Underworld of Bankruptcy for Profit
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 2 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Steve W Albrecht
Fraud in Government Entities: The Perpetrators and the Types of Fraud
Government Finance Review , volume 7 , issue 6 , p. 27 - 30 Posted: 1991-12
Jack G Bologna , Robert , Lindquist
Fraud Auditing and Forensic Accounting: New Tools and Techniques Posted: 1995
Crossref
William K Black
The Best Way to Rob a Bank is to Own One: How Corporate Executives and Politicians Looted the S&L Industry Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,057
RANK
352,349
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies