Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Forensic Accountant’s Guide to the Most Potent Federal Laws Used Against Healthcare Fraud

Pacini, C. J., Sowell Forbes, N. and Cabán-García, M.T. 2020 “A Forensic Accountant’s Guide to the Most Potent Federal Laws Used Against Healthcare Fraud,” Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Volume 12 (3): 386-406, Special Issue 2020

Posted: 6 Nov 2020 Last revised: 18 Feb 2021

Carl Pacini

University of South Florida - College of Business Administration

Nicole Forbes Stowell

University of South Florida - College of Business Administration

Maria T. Caban-Garcia

University of South Florida, St. Petersburg Campus

Date Written: April 7, 2020

Abstract


Healthcare costs are a significant drain on the U.S. economy, so it is of no surprise that fraudsters view healthcare as a lucrative field for illegal activity. Despite increased funding and prosecution efforts by federal and state governments, healthcare fraud continues to be a major threat to the U.S. economy and public. Healthcare fraud in the U.S. affects the government, healthcare providers, insurance companies, patients, and the public. This study examines the major federal laws used to combat healthcare fraud and discusses what types of evidence to collect to prove each element of the healthcare offenses examined. This article is a useful resource for forensic accountants, healthcare regulators, law enforcement officials, healthcare fraud investigators, criminologists, physicians, hospital administrators, health insurers, and the public to help combat healthcare fraud and prevent financial losses.

Keywords: Healthcare fraud: Anti-kickback statute; Stark Law; Federal False Claims Act; Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act; unjust enrichment; payment by mistake; mail fraud; wire fraud; false statements to obtain health benefits

JEL Classification: K10, K40, M40, I19

Suggested Citation:

Pacini, Carl J. and Forbes Stowell, Nicole and Caban-Garcia, Maria T., A Forensic Accountant’s Guide to the Most Potent Federal Laws Used Against Healthcare Fraud (April 7, 2020). Pacini, C. J., Sowell Forbes, N. and Cabán-García, M.T. 2020 “A Forensic Accountant’s Guide to the Most Potent Federal Laws Used Against Healthcare Fraud,” Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Volume 12 (3): 386-406, Special Issue 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3678917
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
742
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Health Law, Policy & Ethics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies