Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fintech in Financial Reporting and Audit for Fraud Prevention and Safeguarding Equity Investments

Roszkowska, P. (2020), "Fintech in financial reporting and audit for fraud prevention and safeguarding equity investments", Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change, Vol. 17 No. 2, pp. 164-196. https://doi.org/10.1108/JAOC-09-2019-0098

44 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2020 Last revised: 29 Jul 2021

Paulina Roszkowska

Bayes Business School (formerly Cass); Warsaw School of Economics (SGH)

Date Written: July 7, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – The aim of this paper is to explore the audit-related causes of financial scandals and advise how emerging technologies can provide solutions thereto. Specifically, this study seeks to look at the facilitators of financial statement fraud and explain specific fintech advancements that contribute to financial information reliability for equity investments.

Design/methodology/approach – The study uses the case studies of Enron and Arthur Andersen to document the evidence of audit-related issues in historical financial scandals. Then, a comprehensive and interdisciplinary literature review at the intersection of business, accounting, and engineering, provides a foundation to propose technology advancements that can solve identified problems in accounting and auditing.

Findings – The findings show that blockchain, internet of things, smart contracts and artificial intelligence solutions have different functionality and can effectively solve various financial reporting and audit-related problems. Jointly, they have a strong potential to enhance the reliability of the information in financial statements and generally change how companies operate.

Practical implications – The proposed and explained technology advancements should be of interest to all publicly listed companies and investors, as they can help safeguard equity investments, thus build investors’ trust towards the company.

Social implications – Aside from implications for capital markets participants, the study findings can materially benefit various stakeholder groups, the broader company environment, and the economy.

Originality/value – This is the first paper that seeks solutions to financial fraud and audit-related financial scandals in technology, and not in implementing yet another regulation. Given the recent technology advancements, the study findings provide insights into how the role of an external auditor might evolve in the future.

Keywords: audit, blockchain, equity investment, financial reporting, fintech, internet of things, machine learning, smart contracts

JEL Classification: G10, G15, M42

Suggested Citation:

Roszkowska, Paulina, Fintech in Financial Reporting and Audit for Fraud Prevention and Safeguarding Equity Investments (July 7, 2020). Roszkowska, P. (2020), "Fintech in financial reporting and audit for fraud prevention and safeguarding equity investments", Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change, Vol. 17 No. 2, pp. 164-196. https://doi.org/10.1108/JAOC-09-2019-0098, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3679816 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3679816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
D Ackman
Enron The Incredible
Forbes.Com Posted: 2002
D A Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Analytical procedures in external auditing: A comprehensive literature survey and framework for external audit analytics
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 40 , p. 83 - 101 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Arnold
Blockchain Is Not A Threat To Accounting, It's An Opportunity Posted: 2018-08
V Arnold , P A Collier , S A Leech , S G Sutton
Impact of intelligent decision aids on expert and novice decision-makers' judgments
Accounting and Finance , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,843
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,965
RANK
21,228
6 Citations
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies