Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion and Money Laundering: A Complete Framework

Journal of Financial Crime, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020

Deen Kemsley

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Sean Kemsley

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Frank T. Morgan

Independent

Date Written: September 20, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: Our objective is to define the fundamental nexus between income tax evasion and money laundering. The G7 Financial Action Task Force (FATF) designates tax evasion as a predicate offense for money laundering. We determine whether this designation is complete from a conceptual standpoint, or whether there is a stronger connection between tax evasion and money laundering.

Approach: We apply the FATF definition for money laundering – as well as generally accepted definitions for tax evasion and for a standard predicate offense – to identify the necessary conditions for each crime. We then use these conditions to test opposing hypotheses regarding the nexus between tax evasion and money laundering.

Findings: We demonstrate that tax evasion does not meet the conditions for a standard predicate offense, and treating it as if it were a standard predicate could be problematic in practice. Instead, we conclude that the FATF’s predicate label for tax evasion, together with tax evasion methods and objectives, imply that all tax evasion constitutes money laundering. In a single process, tax evasion both generates criminal tax savings and launders those criminal proceeds by concealing or disguising their unlawful origin.

Originality: Our analysis demonstrates that tax evasion completely incorporates money laundering as currently defined by the FATF.

Practical Application: The FATF could strengthen its framework by explicitly defining all tax evasion as money laundering. This would enable regulatory agencies to draw upon the full combined resources dedicated to either offense.

Keywords: Taxation, Tax Evasion, Money Laundering

JEL Classification: H24, H26, H30, K42

Suggested Citation:

Kemsley, Deen and Kemsley, Sean and Morgan, Frank T., Tax Evasion and Money Laundering: A Complete Framework (September 20, 2020). Journal of Financial Crime, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3701758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3701758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
J Alm , B Torgler
Culture differences and tax morale in the United States and Europe
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 27 , p. 224 - 246 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , G Zucman
Who owns the wealth in tax havens? macro evidence and implications for global inequality
Journal of Public Economics , volume 162 , p. 89 - 100 Posted: 2018
Crossref
R-C Bayer , M Sutter
The excess burden of tax evasion -an experimental detectionconcealment contest
European Economic Review , volume 53 , p. 527 - 543 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Cramer , F Gahvari
Tax evasion, concealment and the optimal linear income tax
Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 96 , p. 219 - 239 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
922
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,265
RANK
58,519
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies