Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Local Spillover Effect of Corporate Accounting Misconduct: Evidence from City Crime Rates

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020

Eric Holzman

Indiana University

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 29, 2020

Abstract

This study documents a spillover effect of accounting fraud by showing that after the revelation of accounting misconduct, there is an increase in financially motivated neighborhood crime (robberies, thefts, etc.) in the cities where these misconduct firms are located. We find that more visible accounting frauds (e.g., greater media attention and larger stock price declines) are more strongly associated with a future increase in financially motivated neighborhood crime. Further, we predict that adverse shocks stemming from the fraud put pressure on local communities leading to greater incentives and rationalization for individuals to commit financially motivated crime. Consistent with our predictions, we find that the association between fraud revelation and increased future financially motivated crime is strongest when local city-wide unemployment increases, where local job markets are shallower, and where local income inequality is high.

Keywords: accounting misconduct; crime rate; corporate spillovers; income inequality

JEL Classification: E24; M40; M41; M51

Suggested Citation:

Holzman, Eric and Miller, Brian P. and Williams, Brian, The Local Spillover Effect of Corporate Accounting Misconduct: Evidence from City Crime Rates (September 29, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3701740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3701740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
R Agnew
A revised strain theory of delinquency
Social forces , volume 64 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 167 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Agnew
Foundation for a general strain theory of crime and delinquency
Criminology , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 88 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R Agnew
Building on the foundation of general strain theory: Specifying the types of strain most likely to lead to crime and delinquency
Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 319 - 361 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Agnew , H White
An empirical test of general strain theory
Criminology , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 475 - 500 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
RANK
92,907
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies