Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Effectiveness and the Using of Generalized Audit Software to Detect Material Misstatements, Control Deficiencies and Fraud

11 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020

Sheik Tanzil

Independent

Date Written: October 16, 2020

Abstract

The current study reviews prior literature to analyze its findings and presents the results in a thematic analysis pattern to make comprehension of findings convenient. The paper makes important contributions by investigating the connections between the General Auditing Software (GAS) and the audit benefits as perceived by the auditors. The paper also assessed the effectiveness of internal audits and the determinants of audit effectiveness. One of the important findings of this paper is that use of GAS by the Internal Auditors (IA’s) will greatly enhance the Internal Auditor effectiveness however; GAS is not the only factor affecting the auditor effectiveness. The study has reviewed papers and listed the other factors that greatly affect auditor effectiveness.

Keywords: General Auditing Software (GAS), Internal Auditors (IA), Audit Effectiveness

Suggested Citation:

Tanzil, Sheik, Internal Audit Effectiveness and the Using of Generalized Audit Software to Detect Material Misstatements, Control Deficiencies and Fraud (October 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3712743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3712743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
A A M Al-Twaijry , J A Brierley , D R Gwillian
The Development of Internal Audit in Saudi Arabia: An Institutional Theory Perspective
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 14 , p. 507 - 531 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bierstaker , D Janvrin , D J Lowe
What factors influence auditors' use of computer assisted audit techniques?
Advances in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 74 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Bradford , D Hendersen , R J Baxter , P Navarro
Using Generalized Audit Software to Detect Material Misstatements, Control Deficiencies and Fraud
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 521 - 547 Posted: 2020
Crossref
R Debreceny , S Lee , W Neo , J Toh
Employing generalized audit software in the financial services sector: challenges and opportunities
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 20 , issue 6 , p. 605 - 618 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,345
RANK
165,708
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies