Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detection of Financial Statement Frauds Using Beneish Model: Empirical Evidence From Listed Pharmaceutical Companies in Bangladesh

International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics, 7(9), 506-521, 2020

16 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2020

MD Tanjil Mollah

University of Dhaka

Ishtiak Ahmed Sakib

University of Dhaka

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Financial statement fraud had the most significant financial impact on companies when compared to the other categories of occupational fraud as per ACFE Report to the Nations 2014. This study aims to determine the value of Beneish M-Score and to identify whether selected pharmaceutical companies were manipulating their earnings or not. Financial information of 14 pharmaceutical companies was collected from their annual reports of 2014-18. This study finds that pharmaceutical companies of Bangladesh are engaged in Earnings Manipulation and they are doing it on a continuous basis. The results of our study show a deteriorating financial condition of pharmaceutical industry which should make the auditors and regulators more cautious in detecting financial statement frauds.

Keywords: Financial Statement Fraud, Occupational fraud, Beneish M-Score, Earnings Manipulation

JEL Classification: M10, M40, P00

Suggested Citation:

Mollah, MD Tanjil and Sakib, Ishtiak Ahmed, Detection of Financial Statement Frauds Using Beneish Model: Empirical Evidence From Listed Pharmaceutical Companies in Bangladesh (2020). International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics, 7(9), 506-521, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3712000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Charitou , N Lambertides , L Trigeorgis
Managerial discretion in distressed firms
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 323 - 346 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M A Ali
Detection of Earnings Management: A Study on Two selected industries Posted: 2018
Oriol Amat
Earnings Management and Audit Adjustments: An Empirical Study of IBEX 35 Constituents
Pages: 30 Posted: 7 Apr 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
628
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,326
RANK
97,293
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies