Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Do Managers use a Multi-period, Coordinated Strategy involving Accrual Management Choices and Subsequent Earnings Forecasts to Inflate Expectations?

54 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020 Last revised: 30 Nov 2024

Bruce K. Billings

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Sami Keskek

Florida State University

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 29, 2024

Abstract

 We provide evidence that some managers use a multi-period, coordinated strategy involving inflated current-period discretionary accruals and optimistic forecasts of future earnings to delay the revelation of bad news. Inflating discretionary accruals increases investor expectations of future performance, and issuing optimistic earnings forecasts of future earnings supports the inflated accruals and extends the horizon for managers to benefit. This strategy is more pronounced for firms that engage in earnings management outside of GAAP, suggesting intentional behavior. Our evidence indicates that managers use this coordinated strategy when firms experience significant bad news and cannot delay revealing all of the bad news through accrual management. We also find that managers use this coordinated strategy when focusing on short-term performance due to career concerns (i.e., dismissal) or retirement or when they have shorter stock option vesting schedules, which motivates them to inflate investor expectations for shorter-term personal benefits. Furthermore, managers using this strategy do not hold deep in the money exercisable stock options, which is consistent with managers’ private assessment of a higher (lower) likelihood of releasing bad (good) news in the future.

Keywords: management earnings forecasts, managers’ accrual-related forecast bias, earnings management, disclosure quality

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Billings, Bruce K. and Keskek, Sami and Myers, Linda A. and Omer, Thomas C.,

Do Managers use a Multi-period, Coordinated Strategy involving Accrual Management Choices and Subsequent Earnings Forecasts to Inflate Expectations?

(November 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3714228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3714228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
B A Badertscher
Overvaluation and the choice of alternative earnings management mechanisms
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1491 - 1518 Posted: 2011
S P Baginski , J L Campbell , L A Hinson , D S Koo
Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
S P Baginski , J L Campbell , P W Ryu , J D Warren
The association between current earnings surprises and the ex-post bias of concurrently issued management forecasts
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , p. 2104 - 2149 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,481
RANK
362,694
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies