Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Last to Come and Last to Go? On the Complex Role of Gender and Ethnicity in the Reputational Penalties for Directors Linked to Corporate Fraud

Ivana Naumovska, Georg Wernicke & Edward J. Zajac. 2020. 'Last to Come and Last to Go? on the Complex Role of Gender and Ethnicity in the Reputational Penalties for Directors Linked to Corporate Fraud.' Academy of Management Journal, 63(3): 881-902

48 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2020

Ivana Naumovska

INSEAD

Georg Wernicke

HEC Paris - Strategy & Business Policy

Edward J. Zajac

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Business

Date Written: October 28, 2020

Abstract

Scholars have found consistent evidence that directors who served on boards of firms accused of misconduct face reputational penalties in the director labor market. While this is often interpreted in terms of an ex post settling-up process that penalizes directors for failing in their role as monitors of management, the fundamentally social basis of the director labor market suggests that the ex post settling-up process may also incorporate a resource-provisioning role for directors as conferrers of legitimacy. We analyze how growing socio-economic pressures that aim to redress the longstanding underrepresentation of female and ethnic minority directors may lessen—for these sought-after directors—the penalties typically imposed by the labor market in the aftermath of corporate misconduct. Using a rich proprietary dataset on financial misconduct and directors’ demographic characteristics, we find strong support for our hypotheses regarding a possible “reputational immunity” effect. We also provide supplementary analyses demonstrating the specific mechanisms underlying our predictions, and establishing the robustness of the results to a variety of alternative explanations. We discuss the implications of our theoretical perspective and empirical findings for future research on corporate governance, corporate misconduct, and the duality of minority status as it relates to discriminatory outcomes in modern labor markets.

Keywords: corporate misconduct, ex-post settling up, board of directors, minority directors, board diversity

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Naumovska, Ivana and Wernicke, Georg and Zajac, Edward J., Last to Come and Last to Go? On the Complex Role of Gender and Ethnicity in the Reputational Penalties for Directors Linked to Corporate Fraud (October 28, 2020). Ivana Naumovska, Georg Wernicke & Edward J. Zajac. 2020. 'Last to Come and Last to Go? on the Complex Role of Gender and Ethnicity in the Reputational Penalties for Directors Linked to Corporate Fraud.' Academy of Management Journal, 63(3): 881-902, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3720671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3720671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
A G Acharya , T G Pollock
Shoot for the stars? Predicting the recruitment of prestigious directors at newly public firms
Academy of Management Journal , volume 56 , issue 5 , p. 1396 - 1419 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Aguilera , Desender , M Bednar , J H Lee
Connecting the dots. Bringing external corporate governance into the corporate governance puzzle , volume 9 , p. 483 - 574 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M Arthaud-Day , S Certo , C Dalton , D Dalton
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements
Academy of Management Journal , volume 49 , issue 6 , p. 1119 - 1136 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
192,754
4 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies