Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Automatic Machine Learning Algorithms for Fraud Detection in Digital Payment Systems

Eastern-European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 5(9 (107)), 14-26, 2020. doi: 10.15587/1729-4061.2020.212830

13 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2021

Oleh Kolodiziev

Simon Kuznets Kharkiv National University of Economics

Aleksey Mints

Pryazovskyi State Technical University

Pavlo Sidelov

Pryazovskyi State Technical University

Inna Pleskun

Simon Kuznets Kharkiv National University of Economics

Olha Lozynska

Simon Kuznets Kharkiv National University of Economics

Date Written: October 27, 2020

Abstract

Data on global financial statistics demonstrate that total losses from fraudulent transactions around the world are constantly growing. The issue of payment fraud will be exacerbated by the digitalization of economic relations, in particular the introduction by banks of the concept of "Bank-as-a-Service", which will increase the burden on payment services.

The aim of this study is to synthesize effective models for detecting fraud in digital payment systems using automated machine learning and Big Data analysis algorithms.

Approaches to expanding the information base to detect fraudulent transactions have been proposed and systematized. The choice of performance metrics for building and comparing models has been substantiated.

The use of automatic machine learning algorithms has been proposed to resolve the issue, which makes it possible in a short time to go through a large number of variants of models, their ensembles, and input data sets. As a result, our experiments allowed us to obtain the quality of classification based on the AUC metric at the level of 0.977‒0.982. This exceeds the effectiveness of the classifiers developed by traditional methods, even as the time spent on the synthesis of the models is much less and measured in hours. The models' ensemble has made it possible to detect up to 85.7 % of fraudulent transactions in the sample. The accuracy of fraud detection is also high (79‒85 %).

The results of our study confirm the effectiveness of using automatic machine learning algorithms to synthesize fraud detection models in digital payment systems. In this case, efficiency is manifested not only by the resulting classifiers' quality but also by the reduction in the cost of their development, as well as by the high potential of interpretability. Implementing the study results could enable financial institutions to reduce the financial and temporal costs of developing and updating active systems against payment fraud, as well as improve the effectiveness of monitoring financial transactions.

Keywords: digital payments; machine learning; automated synthesis; fraud detection; data science

Suggested Citation:

Kolodiziev, Oleh and Mints, Aleksey and Sidelov, Pavlo and Pleskun, Inna and Lozynska, Olha, Automatic Machine Learning Algorithms for Fraud Detection in Digital Payment Systems (October 27, 2020). Eastern-European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 5(9 (107)), 14-26, 2020. doi: 10.15587/1729-4061.2020.212830, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3730001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Issue 1023
The Nilson Report Posted: 2013
Issue 1118
The Nilson Report Posted: 2017
A D Pozzolo , O Caelen , R A Johnson , G Bontempi
Calibrating Probability with Undersampling for Unbalanced Classification
IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Dal Pozzolo , O Caelen , S Waterschoot , G Bontempi
Racing for Unbalanced Methods Selection
Lecture Notes in Computer Science , p. 24 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
RANK
234,984
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies