Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence and Fraud Detection

Babich V, Birge J, Hilary G (eds) Innovative Technology at the interface of Finance and Operations. Springer Series in Supply Chain Management, forthcoming, Springer Nature

37 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2021 Last revised: 8 Mar 2021

Yang Bao

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Antai College of Economics and Management

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Date Written: November 24, 2020

Abstract

Fraud exists in all walks of life and detecting and preventing fraud represents an important research question relevant to many stakeholders in society. With the rise of big data and artificial intelligence, new opportunities have arisen in using advanced machine learning models to detect fraud. This chapter provides a comprehensive overview of the challenges in detecting fraud using machine learning. We use a framework (data, method, and evaluation criterion) to review some of the practical considerations that may affect the implementation of ma-chine-learning models to predict fraud. Then, we review select papers in the academic literature across different disciplines that can help address some of the fraud detection challenges. Finally, we suggest promising future directions for this line of research. As accounting fraud constitutes an important class of fraud, we will discuss all of these issues within the context of accounting fraud detection.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Faraud detection

Suggested Citation:

Bao, Yang and Hilary, Gilles and Ke, Bin, Artificial Intelligence and Fraud Detection (November 24, 2020). Babich V, Birge J, Hilary G (eds) Innovative Technology at the interface of Finance and Operations. Springer Series in Supply Chain Management, forthcoming, Springer Nature , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3738618 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3738618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
A Abbasi , C Albrecht , A Vance , J Hansen
Metafraud: a metalearning framework for detecting financial fraud
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 , p. 1293 - 1327 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R H Ashton
Behavioral implications of information overload in managerial accounting reports
Cost and Management , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 37 - 40 Posted: 1974
T Baltrušaitis , C Ahuja , L P Morency
Multimodal machine learning: A survey and taxonomy
IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence , volume 41 , p. 423 - 443 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,852
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,423
RANK
3,177
14 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies