Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Accounting Fraud and Irregularities Using Public and Private Enforcement

The Accounting Review, Vol. 96 (6), pp. 183-213, November 2021.

51 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2021 Last revised: 12 Aug 2022

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Antonis Kartapanis

Texas A&M University - Mays Business School

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Christopher G. Yust

Texas A&M University

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract

Most accounting studies use only public enforcement actions (SEC cases) to measure accounting fraud. However, private cases (securities class actions) also play an important enforcement role. We discuss the legal standards and processes for both public and private enforcement regimes, emphasize the importance of screening cases for credible fraud allegations, and show both yield credible fraud measures. Further, we demonstrate these research design choices affect inferences from prior research and a hypothetical research setting. Finally, we show common measures of accounting irregularities using Audit Analytics to proxy for fraud result in significant false positives and negatives and develop a fraud prediction model for use in future research. We recommend using both public and private enforcement with appropriate screening when examining accounting fraud to reduce Type I and II errors, or reporting the sensitivity of findings across regimes. This is particularly important given the reduction in accounting-related enforcement after 2005.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Fraud, Securities Litigation, AAER, SEC Enforcement, Restatements, Irregularities, Fraud Prediction Models

JEL Classification: G38, K22, K41, K42, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Kartapanis, Antonis and McInnis, John M. and Yust, Christopher, Measuring Accounting Fraud and Irregularities Using Public and Private Enforcement (January 1, 2021). The Accounting Review, Vol. 96 (6), pp. 183-213, November 2021., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3744392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
D J Aigner
Regression with a binary independent variable subject to errors of observation
Journal of Econometrics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 59 Posted: 1973
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R G Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
T Baker , S J Griffith
Ensuring Corporate Misconduct: How Liability Insurance Undermines Shareholder Litigation Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,424
RANK
41,967
16 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies