Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Anti-Money Laundering Measures to Curb Pension Fraud in Nigeria

Journal of Financial Crime, Vol. 27 No. 4, pp. 1341-1348 (2020)

12 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2021

Ehi Esoimeme

Rudolph Kwanue University College; University of Wales System - Cardiff Law School ; James Hope University

Date Written: January 11, 2020

Abstract

Purpose – This paper proposes a new approach to curbing pension fraud in Nigeria. The approach involves the use of anti-money laundering tools, procedures and expertise to advance the fight against pension fraud in Nigeria. The guidance is non-binding and does not override the purview of the National Pension Commission. The intention is to build on the revised procedures on the processing of Death Benefits and to complement existing circulars and guidelines issued by the National Pension Commission, including in particular the guidelines for Compliance Officers.

Design/Methodology/Approach – The analysis took the form of a desk study, which analyzed various documents and reports such as the Financial Action Task Force (2012-2018), International Standards on Combating Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism & Proliferation (the FATF Recommendations); the Financial Action Task Force Guidance on the Risk-Based Approach to Combating Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing: High Level Principles and Procedures; National Pension Commission Regulations for Compliance Officers; the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group Guidance for the United Kingdom Financial Sector Part I, June 2017 [Amended December 2017] and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Examination Manual 2014.

Findings – This paper determined that a strong due diligence process where the owner of the pension account and the Next-of-Kin/legal beneficiary are duly identified before the establishment of a business relationship is capable of reducing the risks associated with pension fraud to the barest minimum. This paper also determined that anti-money laundering measures like record keeping, suspicious transactions reporting, training for anti-fraud/money laundering compliance and an independent audit of systems and controls can help curb pension fraud.

Research Limitations – Pension fraud involves the use of deceit or misrepresentation in connection with a pension claim. There are many different kinds of pension fraud, but the type where the Fraud is aimed at stealing a person’s pension funds is what this paper is concerned with.

Originality/Value – While most publications on pension fraud are focused on anti-fraud measures, this paper focuses on the anti-money laundering measures which can be used by Pension Fund Administrators to curb pension fraud.

Keywords: Record keeping, Due diligence, Pension fraud, Pension fund administrators, Suspicious transactions reporting, Know your employee

Suggested Citation:

Esoimeme, Ehi, Using Anti-Money Laundering Measures to Curb Pension Fraud in Nigeria (January 11, 2020). Journal of Financial Crime, Vol. 27 No. 4, pp. 1341-1348 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3752302 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3752302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
705
RANK
848,823
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies