Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Notes from Internal Auditors: Issues in Combating Fraud

Review of Business, Accounting, & Finance, Volume 01, Issue 01, 14 - 28, 2020

15 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2021

Adeola Gbadamosi

Ark Concession Company

Date Written: December 29, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This paper is to provide valuable notes for internal auditors. We know that corporate governance is about the way in which boards oversee the running of an organisation, and how board members are in turn accountable to the organisation’s stakeholders. This has implications for the organisation’s behaviour towards its employees, shareholders, customers and other stakeholders. And internal audit’s role is to assess these concerns. In effect, it can improve levels of transparency and accountability in an organisational activities.

Design/methodology/approach: Data were collected with impartial cross‐referencing of papers published in all major journals in the accounting and auditing. The paper systematically classifies the published literature, and also identifies the possible gaps that can be considered by future studies.

Findings: An organisation’s internal environment has a significant impact on how enterprise risk management is implemented and functions on an ongoing basis. The internal environment is the context in which other components of enterprise risk management are applied, typically with powerful effect, either positive or negative. In this respect, internal auditors should scrutinise potential weaknesses in companies’ control processes and provide a root-cause analysis in case of failures. It is suggested that internal audit touches all the primary activities in the organisational value chain, and, in addition, can streamline support activities through compliance audits and process evaluations. How organisations deal with the risk of fraud may be influenced by internal auditors’ role and the organisation’s own risk assessment and appetite.

Originality: If management is aware of the misalignment, do they have adequate processes and controls to resolve those disconnects? Adequate processes and controls alone will not sufficiently resolve the problem. Some reasons management may be aware of the problem but cannot fix it include, weak leadership, rogue managers in key positions, poor corporate culture, and bad communication between senior executives and business units or functions. So in this study, it is offered some valuable discussion about possible preventive measures that could be used by organisation to deter fraud, and used by further fraud studies to examine their efficacy in promoting fraud prevention theory.


Keywords: fraud, internal auditors, preventive measures, fraud prevention theory

Suggested Citation:

Gbadamosi, Adeola, Notes from Internal Auditors: Issues in Combating Fraud (December 29, 2020). Review of Business, Accounting, & Finance, Volume 01, Issue 01, 14 - 28, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
S Albrecht
The Fraud Triangle, Fraud Magazine , p. 46 - 52 Posted: 2014
Assurance Auditing , Standards Board
ASA 240: The Auditor's Responsibility to Consider Fraud in an Audit of a Financial Report Posted: 2006
AUS 210: The Auditor's Responsibility to Consider Fraud in an Audit of a Financial Report
Australian Accounting Research Foundation Posted: 2004
K Belson
WorldCom head is given 25 years for huge fraud
New York Times Posted: 2005-07-14
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,041
RANK
240,099
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies