Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Home Depot, Hogwarts & Excess Deaths at the CDC

28 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Kurt S. Schulzke

University of North Georgia

Date Written: January 28, 2021

Abstract

What would the Securities & Exchange Commission do if Home Depot reported as its 2020 “net income” only its revenues (not expenses), from only its best eight months, in only its best 18 states? What if we replace “Home Depot” with “CDC”? Which organization should be held to higher accounting and disclosure standards?

In 2020, the CDC’s budget ballooned from $8 billion to roughly $46 billion largely in response to COVID-19 mortality figures reported by the CDC. How many deaths has COVID-19 caused? Causal analysis is always a tricky business, but pinpointing cause of death is notoriously error-prone, more so when a reported cause is used to solicit billions in funding. Indeed, the CDC emphasizes the funding connection twice on the first page of its65-page death certificate handbook.

In support of its remarkable budget increase, and claiming concern that death-certificate-based counts were under-counting COVID-19 deaths, in fall 2020, the CDC began estimating “excess” deaths as a proxy for COVID-19 deaths. Is the CDC’s estimate realistic? To find out, we explore the CDC’s all-cause death data and evaluate their expected deaths model and related disclosures, using as benchmarks SEC Rule 10b-5, AICPA SAS 143 (on auditing estimates), and the fraud triangle. We find that in order to meet minimum SEC standards, which fundamentally require that statements and disclosures be "not materially misleading," the CDC’s excess deaths estimate, disclosures, and presentation thereof would need to change significantly.

The analysis was performed in R Studio using, primarily, the dplyr and ggplot2 packages.

Keywords: CDC, COVID-19, SAS 143, SEC Rule 10b-5, fraud triangle, forensic accounting

JEL Classification: M42, I18, C53

Suggested Citation:

Schulzke, Kurt S., Home Depot, Hogwarts & Excess Deaths at the CDC (January 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3775031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
) DPT, including (excluding) the Tri-state. For most states individually, zero excess is plausible. Yet, this highly important fact goes unmentioned in the CDC's October 23 MMWR, which cherry-picks the Feb -Sep period and ignores deficits to
The answer depends on where you live and the measurement window
The vast majority of the fatalities are either (a) very elderly and, therefore, likely to die soon anyway, or (b) saddled with major comorbidities and … likely to die soon anyway. Even the CDC admits, in print, that it does not know whether ANY of its estimated excess deaths were caused by Covid. All of this means that we should be looking beyond Covid-19 for a full explanation of the Tri-state and other anomalies like the summer 2020 serpent. How transparently does the CDC present the range and share to readers? Not transparently at all. They publish a big
05) warning that a PCR test positive should not be counted as Posted: 2021-01-20
the CDC modelers say nothing about their major financial interest in fostering the appearance of higher excess deaths. An adequate disclosure might read like this: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: Covid-19 deaths are a proxy for CDC revenue. The CDC tends to receive more federal funding when the perceived epidemic death rate is high , volume 2020
summary, in order to meet minimum SEC rules, which fundamentally require that statements and disclosures be "not materially misleading
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,164
RANK
453,964
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies