Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Economic Links between Firms to Detect Accounting Fraud

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2021 Last revised: 9 May 2022

Chenchen Li

Yale School of Management

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

Date Written: May 6, 2022

Abstract

We explore whether accounting fraud can be detected using the information of firms economically linked to a focal firm. Specifically, we examine whether customer information disclosed by a supplier firm, combined with customers’ accounting information, helps to detect the supplier’s revenue fraud. We first confirm the economic link between the supplier and customers by showing a strong positive correlation between the supplier’s sales growth and the growth rate of total customer purchases. We then introduce two variables based on customer accounting information—the discrepancy between supplier sales growth and customer purchase growth and customer excess purchases—and show that they are predictive of supplier revenue fraud. We conduct a battery of cross-sectional tests to further examine the two fraud predictors and generally find results to vary cross-sectionally in a predictable way. Finally, the out-of-sample tests indicate adding the two variables to Dechow et al.’s (2011) model increases fraud prediction accuracy.

Keywords: Fraud, economic link, revenue, accounting information, customer

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chenchen and Li, Ningzhong and Zhang, Frank, Using Economic Links between Firms to Detect Accounting Fraud (May 6, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3780047 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3780047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , Y J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting accounting fraud in publicly traded US firms using a machine learning approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP violations: Implications for assessing earnings management among firms with extreme financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,272
RANK
36,747
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies