Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Factors Affecting Fraudulent Financial Reporting with Independent Commissioners as Moderation Variable

Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Andalia; Amiruddin; Pontoh, G.T. (2021). Analysis of Factors Affecting Fraudulent Financial Reporting with Independent Commissioners as Moderation Variable, Accounting and Finance Review, 5(4): 01 – 12. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.5.4(1)

12 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Andalia Said

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Amiruddin Amiruddin

Hasanuddin University

Grace T. Pontoh

Department of Accounting, Hasanuddin University, Indonesia

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract


Objective - This study aims to examine and analyze the effect of pressure, opportunity, rationalization, ability and arrogance on fraudulent financial reporting with independent commissioners as the moderating variable.

Methodology/Technique - The object of this research is all companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange during 2019. The research sample was obtained through purposive sampling method and resulted in 215 companies. The analysis technique used is multiple regression analysis and Moderated Regression Analysis (MRA).

Findings - The results show that pressure, opportunity, rationalization, ability and arrogance had a significant effect on fraudulent financial reporting. The results of the moderation regression analysis show that independent commissioners moderate the effect of pressure and arrogance on fraudulent financial reporting. Meanwhile, independent commissioners did not moderate opportunities, rationalization, and capacity for fraudulent financial reporting.

Novelty - This research contributes to the pentagon fraud theory, which proves that the elements contained in this theory can be used as a basis for analyzing fraud committed by companies, and contributing to the company so that the company's internal control is improved and the presence of an independent board of commissioners is not only a fulfillment of the company's internal control. regulations made by the IDX.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Pressure; Opportunities; Rationalization; Arrogance; Fraudulent Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M41 G32, M21, M41, M42.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Said, Andalia and Amiruddin, Amiruddin and Pontoh, Grace T., Analysis of Factors Affecting Fraudulent Financial Reporting with Independent Commissioners as Moderation Variable (March 31, 2021). Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Andalia; Amiruddin; Pontoh, G.T. (2021). Analysis of Factors Affecting Fraudulent Financial Reporting with Independent Commissioners as Moderation Variable, Accounting and Finance Review, 5(4): 01 – 12. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.5.4(1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
W S Albrecht , K R Howe , M B Romney
Deterring fraud: the internal auditor's perspective. Inst of Internal Auditors Posted: 1984
S Apriliana , L Agustina
The analysis of fraudulent financial reporting determinant through fraud pentagon approach
Jurnal Dinamika Akuntansi , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 154 - 165 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Helda F Bawakes , M Aaron , Simanjuntak , Sylvia Christina , Daat
Testing the Pentagon's Fraud Theory on Fraudulent Financial Reporting
Journal of Regional Accounting & Finance , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 114 - 148 Posted: 2018
N Christian , Y Z Basri , W Arafah
Analysis of fraud triangle, fraud diamond and fraud pentagon theory to detecting corporate fraud in Indonesia
The International Journal of Business Management and Technology , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,394
RANK
220,473
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies