Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Satyam Computer Scam – Pre and Post Diagnosis

International Journal of Marketing & Financial Management, Volume 4, Issue 9, Dec-2016, pp 53-68

16 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2021

Rajshree Sharma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Shivani Gupta

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dr. Bhupendra Kumar

Debre Tabor University

Date Written: December 16, 2016

Abstract

Scandals are often the “tip of the iceberg”. They represent the "visible‟ catastrophic failures. An attempt is made in this paper to examine in-depth and analyze India‘s Enron, Satyam Computer‘s “creative-accounting” scandal. Their scandal/fraud has put a big question mark on the entire corporate governance system in India. In public companies, this type of 'creative‘ accounting leading to fraud and investigations are, therefore, launched by the various governmental oversight agencies. The accounting fraud committed by the founders of Satyam in 2009 is a testament to the fact that ―the science of conduct is swayed in large by human greed, ambition, and hunger for power, money, fame and glory. Scandals have proved that ―there is an urgent need for good conduct based on strong corporate governance, ethics and accounting & auditing standards. Unlike Enron, which sank due to 'agency‘ problem, Satyam was brought to its knee due to 'tunneling‘ effect. The Satyam scandal highlights the importance of securities laws and CG in emerging markets. Indeed, Satyam fraud ―spurred the government of India to tighten the CG norms to prevent recurrence of similar frauds in future. Thus, major financial reporting frauds need to be studied for 'lessons-learned‘ and 'strategies-to-follow‘ to reduce the incidents of such frauds in the future. The increasing rate of white-collar crimes ―demands stiff penalties, exemplary punishments, and effective enforcement of law with the right spirit.

Keywords: Corporate accounting scandal, Satyam Computer India, Corporate governance, Accounting and auditing standards

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Rajshree and Gupta, Shivani and Kumar, Bhupendra, Satyam Computer Scam – Pre and Post Diagnosis (December 16, 2016). International Journal of Marketing & Financial Management, Volume 4, Issue 9, Dec-2016, pp 53-68 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3826780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
 Bhasin , Madan Lal
Corporate Accounting Fraud: A Case Study of Satyam Computers Limited
Open Journal of Accounting Posted: 2013
 Basilico , Elisabetta , Grove , Hugh , Lorenzo Patelli
Asia's Enron: Satyam (Sanskrit Word for Truth)
Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting Posted: 2012
 Ahmad , Tabrez , Tabrez , Malawat , Yashovardhan Kochar , Ayan Roy
Satyam Scam in the Contemporary corporate world: A case study in Indian Perspective
IUP Journal Posted: 2010
S  Ramachadran , H Timmons , B Wassener
Raju brings down Satyam, shakes India. Asia Times Online Ltd
Satyam Chief Admits Huge Fraud Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,672
RANK
32,088
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cybersecurity, Privacy, & Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies