Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review on Fraud Research : A Study of Vote Counting

Priatnasari, Widagdo & Gantyowati, Ilomata International Journal of Tax & Accounting, Vol 1 No 2 March 2020

15 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Yeni Priatnasari

Universitas Harkat Negeri; Politeknik Harapan Bersama; Sebelas Maret University - Accounting Department

Date Written: Maret 2, 2020

Abstract

This study was aimed to conduct a literature study on research related to fraud. The research method used is to use the literature study method by using the vote counting model. This research would identify papers relating to fraud that have been obtained from various existing databases. Next, the researcher classified the paper by classifying the focus of research at the paper stage in fraud prevention, detection, investigation or remediation. The results of this study were recommendations for researchers, in terms of what is still open as material in research related to fraud.

Keywords: Fraud , Vote counting , Review

Suggested Citation:

Priatnasari, Yeni, Review on Fraud Research : A Study of Vote Counting (Maret 2, 2020). Priatnasari, Widagdo & Gantyowati, Ilomata International Journal of Tax & Accounting, Vol 1 No 2 March 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
B Adrian
Detecting and Preventing Fraud with Data Analytics
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 32 , issue 15 , p. 1485 - 1494 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Alamsyah , B &amp;rahardjo
Financial Fraud Detection using Social Network Analysis
E-Indonesia Initiatives (EII Forum).InstitutTeknologi Bandung Posted: 2013
K Anuar , K Universiti , T Mara , W Adibah , W Ismail , U Teknologi , W Ismail
The Effects of Audit Committee Attributes on Fraudulent Financial Reporting Posted: 2014-05
A Arens , A Elder , R Beasley , Ms
Auditing and Assurance Services. Penerbit Erlangga. Association of Fraud Examiners Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
RANK
914,805
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies