Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deployment of Whistleblowing as an Accountability Mechanism To Curb Corruption and Fraud in a Developing Democracy

Okafor, O.N., Adebisi, F.A., Opara, M. and Okafor, C.B. (2020), "Deployment of whistleblowing as an accountability mechanism to curb corruption and fraud in a developing democracy", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 33 No. 6, pp. 1335-1366. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-12-2018-3780

32 Pages Posted: 3 May 2021

Oliver Nnamdi Okafor

Toronto Metropolitan University

Festus Adebisi

Southern Alberta Institute of Technology

Michael Opara

Independent

Chidinma Okafor

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Purpose – This paper investigates the challenges and opportunities for the deployment of whistleblowing as an accountability mechanism to curb corruption and fraud in a developing country. Nigeria is the institutional setting for the study.

Design/methodology/approach – Adopting an institutional theory perspective and a survey protocol of urban residents in the country, the study presents evidence on the whistleblowing program introduced in 2016. Nigeria’s whistleblowing initiative targets all types of corruption, including corporate fraud.

Findings – This study finds that, even in the context of a developing country, whistleblowing is supported as an accountability mechanism, but the intervention lacks awareness, presents a high risk to whistleblowers and regulators, including the risk of physical elimination, and is fraught with institutional and operational challenges. In effect, awareness of whistleblowing laws, operational challenges and an institutional environment conducive to venality undermine the efficacy of whistleblowing in Nigeria.

Originality/value – The study presents a model of challenges and opportunities for whistleblowing in a developing democracy. The authors argue that the existence of a weak and complex institutional environment and the failure of program institutionalization explain those challenges and opportunities. The authors also argue that a culturally anchored and institutionalized whistleblowing program encourages positive civic behavior by incentivizing citizens to act as custodians of their resources, and it gives voice to the voiceless who have endured decades of severe hardship and loss of dignity due to corruption.

Keywords: Whistleblowing, Institutional theory, Corruption, Fraud, Corruption in Nigeria

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Oliver Nnamdi and Adebisi, Festus and Opara, Michael and Okafor, Chidinma, Deployment of Whistleblowing as an Accountability Mechanism To Curb Corruption and Fraud in a Developing Democracy (2020). Okafor, O.N., Adebisi, F.A., Opara, M. and Okafor, C.B. (2020), "Deployment of whistleblowing as an accountability mechanism to curb corruption and fraud in a developing democracy", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 33 No. 6, pp. 1335-1366. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-12-2018-3780, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3832456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
129 References
These include, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT)
Crossref
We surveyed urban dwellers, where adult literacy level is significantly higher at 73.6 versus 49.5% in rural areas (National Bureau of Statistic, 2010), and a respondent must have at least a college diploma or is attending a postsecondary institution
Approximately 23% of respondents identified as students
At the time of data collection, Southerners (specifically Igbos) living in the North were given a 90-days ultimatum by a Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) to leave the North or face imminent danger. From the Nigerian cities listed on the World Urban Areas report by Demographia (2016), the four biggest cities were selected, subject to being either a state capital or the federal capital. Only one city was selected from each geopolitical zone. Specifically, the authors selected Abuja
The authors were able to administer surveys in four of six geopolitical zones due to safety concerns
World Bank estimates that 50% of Nigerians were urban dwellers in 2017 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Franklin Nakpodia , Emmanuel Adegbite , Femi Olan , Folajimi Ashiru
Corporate Governance in a Multi-Ethnic Environment
JPP-D-24-00020 · 39 Pages · Posted: 23 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,809
RANK
556,453
1 Citations
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies