Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Incentives-Based Mechanism for Corporate Cyber Governance Enforcement and Regulation

Corbet S., Gurdgiev C. (2020) An Incentives-Based Mechanism for Corporate Cyber Governance Enforcement and Regulation In: Walker T., Gramlich D., Bitar M., Fardnia P. (eds) Ecological, Societal, and Technological Risks and the Financial Sector. Palgrave Studies in Sustainable Business In Association

16 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2021

Shaen Corbet

Dublin City University ; University of Waikato - Management School

Constantin Gurdgiev

Monfort College of Business, University of Northern Colorado; Trinity Business School, Trinity College, Dublin

Date Written: June 11, 2020

Abstract

A growing literature in finance examines the impact of cybercrime on equity markets and publicly traded corporations, with an emerging strand of this literature investigating the contagion channel from cybersecurity breaches against the publicly traded companies, to broader market volatility. The dominant responses by the corporations to these threats can be described as ‘test internally for internal vulnerabilities’, and the ‘insure and forget’ approach, both of which imply a lack of significant preventative actions by companies under the risk of an external cybersecurity attack. The evidence of growing adverse impact and risk of hacking events on firms’ market valuations is highlighted by (i) the rising cumulative abnormal returns impact of such events, (ii) the rising systemic contagion effects of hacks, and (iii) the lack of robust regulatory mechanisms for systematic prevention, mitigation, and enforcement of data security breaches. This supports our proposal that when acting under regulatory authority’s supervision from within a ring-fenced incentives system, ‘white knight’ hackers may provide the appropriate mechanism for discovery and deterrence of weak corporate cybersecurity practices and systems. This mechanism can help alleviate the systemic weaknesses in the existent mechanisms for cybersecurity oversight and enforcement in financial markets.

Keywords: Governance, Cybersecurity, Risk

JEL Classification: G15, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Corbet, Shaen and Gurdgiev, Constantin, An Incentives-Based Mechanism for Corporate Cyber Governance Enforcement and Regulation (June 11, 2020). Corbet S., Gurdgiev C. (2020) An Incentives-Based Mechanism for Corporate Cyber Governance Enforcement and Regulation In: Walker T., Gramlich D., Bitar M., Fardnia P. (eds) Ecological, Societal, and Technological Risks and the Financial Sector. Palgrave Studies in Sustainable Business In Association, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3834047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
L Ablon , M C Libicki , A A Golay
Markets for cybercrime tools and stolen data. Rand National Security Division Posted: 2014
Accenture
The cost of cybercrime Posted: 2019
Alva Group
What is the long-term impact of a cybersecurity breach on corporate reputation? Alva Posted: 2016-11-10
R Anderson , C Barton , R Böhme , R Clayton , M J G Van Eaton , M Levi , T Moore , S Savage
Measuring the cost of cybercrime
The Economics of Information Security and Privacy , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 265 - 300 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
534
RANK
785,362
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies