Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash-for-Information Whistleblower Programs: Effects on Whistleblowing and Consequences for Whistleblowers

64 Pages Posted: 4 May 2021

Aiyesha Dey

Harvard Business School

Jonas Heese

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Gerardo Perez Cavazos

University of California, San Diego (UCSD)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 30, 2021

Abstract

We study the effect of financial incentives on whistleblowing and the consequences for whistleblowers under the cash-for-information program of the False Claims Act (FCA). Exploiting appeals-court decisions that increase financial incentives for whistleblowing, we find that greater incentives increase the number of lawsuits filed with the regulator, the regulator’s investigation length, the percentage of intervened lawsuits, and the percentage of settled lawsuits. Using information from lawsuits, a professional networking site, and background checks for up to 1,168 whistleblowers, we find that whistleblowers’ long-term annual income decreases by approximately 8.6% or $6,500 but do not find evidence of social costs. In comparison, whistleblowers can expect to receive approximately $140,000 for blowing the whistle. Overall, our results suggest that the FCA cash-for-information program helps expose corporate misconduct and helps compensate whistleblowers for their income loss.

Keywords: Whistleblowers, cash-for-information whistleblower programs, False Claims Act, corporate misconduct, consequences for whistleblowers

JEL Classification: D82, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dey, Aiyesha and Heese, Jonas and Perez Cavazos, Gerardo, Cash-for-Information Whistleblower Programs: Effects on Whistleblowing and Consequences for Whistleblowers (April 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837308 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Sandra G. Schafhäutle , David Veenman
Crowdsourced Forecasts and the Market Reaction to Earnings Announcement News
59 Pages · Posted: 4 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 8 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 838
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jason Sockin , Aaron J. Sojourner , Evan Starr
Non-Disclosure Agreements and Externalities from Silence
Upjohn Institute Working Paper 22-360 · 86 Pages · Posted: 9 Aug 2021 · Last revised: 19 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 2,169
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Justin Chircop , Monika Tarsalewska , Agnieszka Trzeciakiewicz
<p><b>Government Contracting and Wage Compliance</b></p>
50 Pages · Posted: 4 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 18 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 611
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,854
RANK
30,730
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies