Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Systematic Literature Review on Forensic Accounting

Proceedings of the International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI) 2020

15 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

A. G. H. S. K. Wijerathna

University of Kelaniya

H. A. P. L. Perera

University of Kelaniya

Date Written: November 19, 2020

Abstract

The objective of this study is to systematically analyze the existing literature on forensic accounting and thereby identifying the existing gap in the forensic accounting literature. In the era of increasing accounting scandals, the importance of forensic accounting is also increasing. This study provides an overview of previous studies which have been conducted in the area of forensic accounting which can be used by professionals, regulators, academics, researchers, forensic accounting practitioners and etc. The current study systematically analyzes a sample of twenty-four (24) research articles which have been conducted in the broad area of forensic accounting. The sample has been selected from research articles published during the period starting from 2015 to 2020. The results of this study reveal the importance of incorporating forensic accounting education into undergraduate and graduate-level courses. More importantly, Forensic Accountants should have skills in multi-disciplinary areas. Similarly, knowledge of big data is essential to be a good Forensic Accountant. Further, this study suggests four (04) key areas for future researches which are; the importance of forensic accounting education, how forensic accounting could be used to reduce financial collapses practical application of forensic accounting, and the role of Forensic Accountant in the field of auditing.

Keywords: Accounting, Auditing, Forensic Accounting, Fraud, Systematic Literature Review

Suggested Citation:

Wijerathna, A. G. H. S. K. and Perera, H. A. P. L., A Systematic Literature Review on Forensic Accounting (November 19, 2020). Proceedings of the International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI) 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3844260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3844260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
R Abdullahi , N Mansor
Fraud prevention initiatives in the Nigerian public sector
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 544 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Aithal , S Aithal
Posted: 2916
H Alshurafat , C Beattie , G Jones , J Sands
Perceptions of the usefulness of various teaching methods in forensic accounting education
Accounting Education , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 204 Posted: 2020
Crossref
B Aquilani , C Silvestri , A Ruggieri , C Gatti
A systematic literature review on total quality management critical success factors and the identification of new avenues of research
The TQM Journal , p. 184 - 213 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,644
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,278
RANK
11,852
9 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies