Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Forensic Accountants in Tax Fraud Prevention in Nigeria

Nwaorgu, I.A., Iormbagah, J.A. & Abiahu, M.C. (2021, January). The role of forensic accountants in tax fraud prevention in Nigeria. In Taxation, Social Contract and Economic Development. Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria

27 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2021

Innocent Augustine Nwaorgu

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture - Department of Accounting

Jacob Aondohemba Iormbagah

Department of Accounting, College of Management Sciences, Michael Okpara University of Agriculture Umudike, Umuahia, Abia State, Nigeria

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Date Written: January 30, 2021

Abstract

Over the past decades, actual tax revenue generated has consistently fall short of the budgeted tax revenue expected due to tax fraud; this is issue has left government with little funds to finance the huge capital expenditure needed for economic development. It is important to address the issue of tax fraud in Nigeria. As such, this study examines the role of forensic accountants in prevention of tax fraud in Nigeria. The study adopts a survey research design. Data is collected with the aid of questionnaires (5 Likert’s scale) targeted at practicing financial accountants, forensic accountants, tax experts and academics. Out of 200 questionnaires sent online, 38 were returned which formed the sample for the study. Data gotten is analyzed with Descriptive statistics (mean and percentages). Findings revealed that the role of forensic accounting has not improved tax fraud detection and prevention in Nigeria which consequently has negative impact on tax revenue generation in Nigeria. In consonance with the study findings, the study recommends that, government should create a strong data base for all eligible tax payer that is electronical. Also, there should be data harmonization across all sectors of the economic so as to prevent easy facilitation of offshore account running, false payroll filing, payment of employees in cash and non-remittal of withholding tax. By doing this, tax payers can easily be tracked and any event of tax fraud easily be detected by forensic accounting experts. There should be creation of specific court by law for special and speedy prosecution of tax fraudsters aided by forensic evidence. This will improve the effectiveness of tax administration in Nigeria.

Keywords: Tax fraud, forensic accountants and tax revenue

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Nwaorgu, Innocent Augustine and Iormbagah, Jacob Aondohemba and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, The Role of Forensic Accountants in Tax Fraud Prevention in Nigeria (January 30, 2021). Nwaorgu, I.A., Iormbagah, J.A. & Abiahu, M.C. (2021, January). The role of forensic accountants in tax fraud prevention in Nigeria. In Taxation, Social Contract and Economic Development. Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
S Fazli , T Mohammed , M Mohamed
Fraud risk factors of fraud triangle and the likelihood of fraud occurrence: Evidence from Malaysia
Information Management and Business Review , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2014
D Folayan , A Adeniyi
Effects of tax evasion on government revenue generation in oyo state
European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 76 - 89 Posted: 2018
C Florenz
Exploring a new element of Fraud: A study on selected financial accounting fraud cases in the World
American International Journal of Contemporary Research , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 112 - 121 Posted: 2012
D Gbegi , J Adebisi
The new fraud diamond model -How can it help forensic accountants in fraud investigation in Nigeria?
European Journal of Accounting Auditing and Fiancé Research , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 129 - 138 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
550
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,649
RANK
115,349
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies