Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Once Bitten, Twice Shy: Learning From Corporate Fraud and Corporate Governance Spillovers

63 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2021 Last revised: 12 Nov 2022

Trung Nguyen

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: October 31, 2022

Abstract

This paper finds that investors learn from their experience with corporate fraud and financial misconduct and modify their investment behavior to avoid suspicious firms and increase corporate governance efforts. More specifically, mutual funds that experienced corporate fraud at one of their portfolio firms subsequently chose firms with lower probabilities of fraud and financial misconduct, compared to otherwise similar funds that did not experience any corporate malfeasance incidents. Furthermore, mutual funds that experienced corporate fraud intensify their corporate governance activities and vote significantly more against management at other firms in their portfolios, compared to the voting behavior at the same firms by otherwise similar funds but that did not experience any fraud, especially on issues related to director election, audit, and financial statement. I find that fraud-experienced investors are significantly less likely to vote for problematic directors. Finally, I find that firms held by more fraud-experienced investors observe a significant drop in the propensity to get an accounting fraud sanction in subsequent years. Taken together, my results show that learning and experience play a critical role in corporate governance spillovers, fraud detection, and deterrence.

Keywords: institutional investors; investor experience; shareholder voting; corporate governance; corporate fraud; board of directors

JEL Classification: G23; G34; G41; K42

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Trung, Once Bitten, Twice Shy: Learning From Corporate Fraud and Corporate Governance Spillovers (October 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3866082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3866082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
R Aggarwal , P A Saffi , J Sturgess
The Role of Institutional Investors in Voting: Evidence from the Securities Lending Market
Journal of Finance Posted: 2015
M L Arthaud-Day , S T Certo , C M Dalton , D R Dalton
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements Posted: 2006
A Baig , J Delisle , G R Zaynutdinova
Passive Ownership and Earnings Manipulation
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2018
R F Baumeister , E Bratslavsky , C Finkenauer , K D Vohs
Bad is stronger than good
Review of General Psychology Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,284
RANK
200,848
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies