Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk and Strategic M&A Valuations

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2021 Last revised: 3 Jan 2024

Claudia Imperatore

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Gabriel Pundrich

University of Florida

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 3, 2024

Abstract

We study the role of litigation risk in M&A valuations. Specifically, we hypothesize that litigation risk leads to strategic valuations in fairness opinions (FOs) obtained in M&A transactions. Employing a regulatory shock to merger litigation risk and focusing on the most common valuation techniques – peer firm comparables and DCF analysis – we find that target-sought FOs exhibit lower valuations when litigation risk is high. The effect is concentrated in deals with greater agency conflicts between target management and outside shareholders. Furthermore, downward-biased valuations reduce appraisal litigation but are also associated with lower premiums. In contrast to prior work suggesting that target-sought FOs are used to negotiate a higher takeover price, our findings imply that they are used, at least in part, to mitigate litigation risk and facilitate successful deal completion. Our findings are relevant to academics, practitioners, and regulators interested in M&A price formation, and highlight the role litigation plays therein.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions; Appraisal laws; Fairness opinions; Valuation

JEL Classification: G24, G32, G34, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Imperatore, Claudia and Pundrich, Gabriel and Verdi, Rodrigo S. and Yost, Benjamin, Litigation Risk and Strategic M&A Valuations (January 3, 2024). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3869109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3869109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A Albuquerque , G De Franco , R Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
R Bartell , C Janssen
In defense of fairness opinions Posted: 2017
L Bebchuk , M Kahan
Fairness opinions: How fair are they and what can be done about it?
Duke Law Journal , p. 27 - 53 Posted: 1989
S Bhojraj , C Lee
Who is my peer? A valuation-based approach to the selection of comparable firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 407 - 439 Posted: 2002
Load more
1 Citations
Matthew Shaffer
Which multiples matter in M &A? An overview
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,000
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,509
RANK
52,354
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies