Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practice Vs. Appearance: Understanding Regulatory Actions against Auditors for Insufficient Professional Skepticism

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 22(2): 239-279 (2021)

41 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021

Erin Nickell

Stetson University - M. E. Rinker, Sr. Institute of Tax and Accountancy

Jared Eutsler

University of North Texas

Date Written: June 24, 2021

Abstract

Audit regulators frequently describe that auditors lack sufficient professional skepticism, but practitioners argue that these allegations are unsubstantiated. We review SEC audit enforcement actions (AAERs) and PCAOB inspection findings to understand how regulators evaluate skepticism. Our analysis of AAERs provides evidence of an outcome effect, where regulator perceptions of skeptical behavior are influenced by the results of fraud investigations (e.g. known risks and client misrepresentations). Our analysis of PCAOB inspections suggests that the occurrence of a skepticism deficiency is associated with the number of audit errors identified. Also, inspection findings related to documentation issues, audit opinions, and related parties are associated with skepticism deficiencies. These results substantiate practitioner claims that there is an issue with skepticism in appearance rather than skepticism in practice. This study provides guidance for auditors to more visibly demonstrate skeptical behavior and emphasizes the need for clearer expectations and processes for evaluating skepticism.

Keywords: auditing, professional skepticism, fraudulent financial reporting, audit inspection, audit enforcement action

JEL Classification: M400, M420, M480

Suggested Citation:

Nickell, Erin and Eutsler, Jared, Practice Vs. Appearance: Understanding Regulatory Actions against Auditors for Insufficient Professional Skepticism (June 24, 2021). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 22(2): 239-279 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3873450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Auditing Practices Board (APB)
Auditor Scepticism: Raising the Bar. Discussion Paper. London: Auditing Practices Board (UK) Posted: 2010
________
Auditor Scepticism: Raising the Bar. Feedback Paper. London: Auditing Practices Board (UK) Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
735
RANK
432,018
7 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies