Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Social Mechanisms in the Commission of or Resistance to Fraud: A Field Study

55 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 29 Mar 2023

Pujawati Mariestha (Estha) Gondowijoyo

University of Melbourne

Christie Hayne

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: January 31, 2023

Abstract

We analyze 14 stories from individuals who committed fraud and 19 from those who resisted social pressure to commit fraud. Using social norms theory and a dichotomy of social and administrative mechanisms, we unpack the roles and relative influence of control mechanisms on an individual’s decision to comply with or resist pressure to commit fraud. Social mechanisms are based on the influence of others (e.g., culture, mentorship) while administrative mechanisms are based on rules and policies (e.g., reward systems). We find that social mechanisms typically create and communicate normative expectations while administrative mechanisms support their enforcement by formalizing expectations, changing the perceived cost–benefit of compliance, and facilitating adherence. Further, we find that social mechanisms are significantly more influential than administrative mechanisms in pushing individuals toward the commission of fraud and supporting their resistance. Our field study enriches our understanding of fraud and identifies anti-fraud mechanisms in which practitioners should invest.

Keywords: fraud, control systems, social norms, social mechanisms, administrative mechanisms

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gondowijoyo, Pujawati Mariestha (Estha) and Hayne, Christie, The Importance of Social Mechanisms in the Commission of or Resistance to Fraud: A Field Study (January 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3876749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , C Hofmann , L Van Lent
Altruism, social norms, and incentive contract design
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2022
J L Altamuro , J V Gray , H Zhang
Corporate integrity culture and compliance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 428 - 458 Posted: 2022
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
B E Ashforth , V Anand , L Bienengräber , R Radtke , S Widener
What Is Fraud? Available at: www.acfe.com/fraud-101.aspx Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE)
Counterproductive work behaviors and work climate: The role of an ethically focused management control system and peers' self-focused behavior. Accounting, Organizations and Society 96 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
829
RANK
475,518
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies