Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emerging Technologies To Detect Fraud in Audit Testing: A Perception of Malaysian Big Four Auditors

21 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021

Fung Xin Lim

Asia Pacific University of Technology & Innovation, Malaysia

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Fraud surveys performed over the past decade remained at worrying levels in Malaysia. The Malaysian 1MDB scandal has attracted worldwide attention which severely damaged the local auditing profession, worsening the credibility crisis in the sector. The rise of emerging technologies is seen to bridge the expectation gap in strengthening stakeholder confidence in auditors by easing fraud detection. Unfortunately, a past study in Malaysia on task-technology fit between auditor’s knowledge and perceived importance on technology revealed a gap. A report by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants in 2019 highlighted that the lagging factor of emerging technology adoption in Malaysia is due to auditors’ non-realization of its usefulness in fraud detection. Furthermore, to render emerging technology as a useful medium for data extraction and analysis higher levels of scepticism is required. Besides, focus is placed on data quality as the accuracy of testing is heavily reliant on the input. Hence, this study intends to find whether there is a relationship between the perception of Malaysian Big Four external auditors and fraud detection in the audit testing phase. An online questionnaire based on a 5-point Likert scale was distributed and received responses from 108 external auditors where data was coded and input into the SPSS for further analysis. The results show that Malaysian Big Four external auditor’s perception of emerging technology affects the use for fraud detection in audit testing. As this study could not be generalized, further research should consider looking from the time constraints viewpoint or to study auditors from a similar firm for a greater understanding of their perception since firms have different degree of emerging technology adoption.

Keywords: Big Four auditors; Emerging technology; Fraud detection; Data quality; IT proficiency; Perceived usefulness; Professional scepticism

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Fung Xin, Emerging Technologies To Detect Fraud in Audit Testing: A Perception of Malaysian Big Four Auditors (June 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3877347 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3877347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
H Abou-El-Sood , A Kotb , A Allam
Exploring Auditors' Perceptions of the Usage and Importance of Audit Information Technology
International Journal of Auditing , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Audit and Technology, London: The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
ACCA Posted: 2019
Blockchain Technology on Audit and Assurance Profession, Canada: Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada
AICPA Posted: 2017
The Data-Driven Audit: How Automation and AI are Changing the Audit and the Role of the Auditor, Canada: Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada
AICPA Posted: 2020
Load more
3 Citations
Abdul Rahman Al Natour , Hamzah Al-Mawali , Hala Zaidan , Yasmeen Hany Zaky Said
The role of forensic accounting skills in fraud detection and the moderating effect of CAATTs application: evidence from Egypt
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Posted: 2023
Crossref
Charles G. Kamau
Considerations for bridging the Audit Expectation Gap: A Desk Review
African Journal of Commercial Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Milad Soltani , Alexios Kythreotis , Arash Roshanpoor
Two decades of financial statement fraud detection literature review; combination of bibliometric analysis and topic modeling approach
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 1367 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
786
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,174
RANK
72,782
3 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies