Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value of an Edge

Posted: 2 Nov 2021 Last revised: 6 Dec 2021

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: August 2, 2021

Abstract

This note considers the questions of: i) what exactly is an "edge" or advantage, ii) what is the value of an edge, and iii) what are the values of competing edges, when each could potentially tip the results either way in a competitive strategic game?

These questions are considered in the context of and against the backdrop of the recent UK Supreme Court judgment in Ivey v Genting Casinos [2017] UKSC 67 (25 October 2017), which concerned whether professional gambler Phil Ivey could contractually enforce payment of c.£8m potential winnings on the card game “Punto Banco” which he had achieved using a cryptic "edge-sorting" technique (with similarities both to "card-counting" and to a financial derivatives trading strategy) played against counterparty Crockfords casino.

Keywords: Ivey, Genting, Crockfords, Borgata, edge-sorting, advantage, betting, Punto Banco, Baccarat, derivatives, trading

JEL Classification: C72, C73, K42

Suggested Citation:

Macey-Dare, Rupert, Value of an Edge (August 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3898020
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies