Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Regulation and Use of Artificial Intelligence and 5G Technology to Combat Cybercrime and Financial Crime in South African Banks

Chitimira H and Ncube P "The Regulation and Use of Artificial Intelligence and 5G Technology to Combat Cybercrime and Financial Crime in South African Banks" PER / PELJ 2021(24) - DOI http://dx.doi.org/10.17159/1727-3781/2021/v24i0a10742

33 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021

Howard Chitimira

North-West University

Princess Ncube

University of Pretoria

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Artificial intelligence (AI) and fifth generation network technology (5G) are now being utilised by some companies and financial institutions such as banks to enhance their competitiveness and expand their businesses. The general types of AI include functional AI, interactive AI, text AI, visual AI and analytic AI. The key components of AI include machine learning, fast Internet connectivity, deep learning, neural networks and advanced data analysis. These components may be complemented by the adoption and use of standard 5G cellular networks. 5G utilises broadband Internet access and Internet connection, and is now employed by some banking institutions, especially in developed countries. It is not clear whether South African banking institutions have adopted 5G for their Internet connectivity and operations. AI and 5G may be used to detect and combat cybercrimes in banking institutions. On the other hand, AI and 5G may also be abused by cybercriminals to commit financial crimes such as money laundering and insider trading. In this regard it is submitted that South African policy makers should carefully revise the Cybercrimes Bill B6-2017 (Cybercrimes Bill) to embrace the use of AI and 5G to detect and combat cybercrimes in South African banks. Accordingly, this article examines the adequacy of the Cybercrimes Bill. It also explores the regulation and use of 5G and AI to detect, prevent and combat cybercrimes in banks and other financial institutions in South Africa.

Keywords: Cybercrimes, cyber security, financial markets, artificial intelligence, financial institutions

Suggested Citation:

Chitimira, Howard and Ncube, Princess, The Regulation and Use of Artificial Intelligence and 5G Technology to Combat Cybercrime and Financial Crime in South African Banks (June 30, 2021). Chitimira H and Ncube P "The Regulation and Use of Artificial Intelligence and 5G Technology to Combat Cybercrime and Financial Crime in South African Banks" PER / PELJ 2021(24) - DOI http://dx.doi.org/10.17159/1727-3781/2021/v24i0a10742 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3898436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Acta Universitatis Danubius Juridica Chitimira H "The Reliance on Artificial Intelligence Measures to Curb Money Laundering Practices in the South African Banking Institutions and Real Estate Sector
Acta Universitatis Danubius Juridica , p. 28 - 43 Posted: 2020
Cruz-Cunha , Portela
Handbook of Research on Digital Crime Cruz-Cunha MM and Portela IM Handbook of Research on Digital Crime, Cyberspace Security, and Information Assurance (IGI Global Hershey 2015) Dawson and Omar New Threats and Countermeasures Dawson M and Omar M New Threats and Countermeasures in Digital Crime and Cyber Terrorism Posted: 2015
Çakır Dilek , Aydın 2015 Ijaia Dilek , S Çakır , H Aydın , M
Applications of Artificial Intelligence Techniques to Combat Cybercrimes: A Review
IJAIA 21-34 Dlamini and Mbambo 2019 Cogent Social Sciences Dlamini S and Mbambo C "Understanding Policing of Cyber-Crime in South Africa: The Phenomena, Challenges and Effective Responses" 2019 Cogent Social Sciences 1-13 Ennew and Waite Financial Services Marketing Ennew CT and Waite N Financial Services Marketing: An International Guide to Principles and Practice Posted: 2007
Monserrat Ericsson , Nokia 5g Mobile Ericsson , O A
Cambridge 2016) Ezrachi and Stucke 2017 U Ill L Rev Ezrachi A and Stucke ME "Artificial Intelligence and Collusion: When Computers Inhibit Competition
Monserrat JF and Nokia PM 5G Mobile and Wireless Communications Technology , p. 1775 - 1809 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
638
RANK
424,948
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies