Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption and financial fragility of small and medium enterprises: International evidence

Journal of Multinational Financial Management, Vol. 57, No. 100660, 2020

Posted: 13 Aug 2021

Anh-Tuan Le

National Central University

Anh-Tuan Doan

University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City

Date Written: August 11, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of corruption on the financial fragility of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) across 62 countries over the period from 2012 to 2018. We also evaluate how economic freedom and press freedom affect the association between corruption and corporate financial fragility. We find evidence that an increase in the degree of corruption is positively correlated with the financial fragility of SMEs in developing countries. In contrast, we show no evidence that corruption is significantly associated with the financial fragility of firms in developed countries. Furthermore, we find that the adverse impact of corruption on firm financial fragility is more pronounced in countries with less economic freedom. Our results also reveal that firms in countries with greater press freedom can better mitigate the negative impact of corruption on their risks than firms in countries with lower levels of independent press. Econometrically, our findings still hold even after controlling for dynamic endogeneity, simultaneity, and unobserved time-invariant heterogeneity, inherent in the corruption–corporate fragility relationship.

Keywords: Corruption; Financial fragility; Economic freedom; Press freedom

JEL Classification: D73; G32; O16

Suggested Citation:

Le, Anh-Tuan and Doan, Anh-Tuan, Corruption and financial fragility of small and medium enterprises: International evidence (August 11, 2021). Journal of Multinational Financial Management, Vol. 57, No. 100660, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3903017
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
368
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies