Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bitcoin and Beyond: Crypto Asset Considerations for Auditors

39 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2021

Daniel Dupuis

American University of Sharjah - School of Business and Management

Kimberly C. Gleason

American University of Sharjah

Yezen H. Kannan

Zayed University; Duquesne University

Date Written: August 12, 2021

Abstract

Given the relative nascency of digital assets, we provide auditing faculty, students, and practitioners with a holistic overview of digital assets. We first place digital assets within the context of money and describe the microstructure of a transaction using crypto-assets. We then focus on the considerations that digital assets present provide an explanation of auditor considerations associated with digital assets for auditors. We address the current accounting treatment of digital assets and explain the challenges posed by digital assets for auditors regarding the management assertions. We identify the fraud risk factors that auditors should be aware of, and describe potential innovations in the digital currency markets that could be the basis of discussions in the accounting and auditing classrooms in the future.

Keywords: Auditing, COSO, fraud, cryptocurrency, digital coins, crypto-assets

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G23

Suggested Citation:

Dupuis, Daniel and Gleason, Kimberly C. and Kannan, Yezen H., Bitcoin and Beyond: Crypto Asset Considerations for Auditors (August 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3903995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3903995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Accounting for cryptocurrencies
ACCA Posted: 2021
G Ackerman , M Garratt , R
turnsto-bust American Institute of CPAs (AICPA) , 2020. Implications of the Use of Blockchain in SOC for Service Organization Examinations
20 An increasing number of US listed companies are incorporated in the Marshall Islands. See , p. 55 - 70 Posted: 2017-02-11
D Broby , G Paul
The financial auditing of distributed ledgers, blockchain and cryptocurrencies
Journal of Financial Transformation , volume 46 , p. 76 - 88 Posted: 2017
Auditing in the Crypto-Asset Sector Posted: 2019
Load more
5 Citations
Hossam Haddad , Esraa Esam Alharasis , Jihad Fraij , Nidal Mahmoud Al-Ramahi
How Do Innovative Improvements in Forensic Accounting and Its Related Technologies Sweeten Fraud Investigation and Prevention?
WSEAS TRANSACTIONS ON BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS , volume 21 , p. 1115 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Fatih Ömür Binici , Fatma Tektüfekçi
İŞLETMELERDE VERİ DEĞER ZİNCİRİ VE VERİ VARLIKLARININ MUHASEBE SİSTEMİ İÇİNDE GÖSTERİMİ
Muhasebe Bilim Dünyası Dergisi , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 206 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Andrew B. Jackson , Steven Luu
Accounting For Digital Assets
Australian Accounting Review , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 302 Posted: 2023
Crossref
David Krause
AI and Web3: A New Era for Accounting and Auditing
23 Pages · Posted: 2 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 172
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
669
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,396
RANK
89,676
5 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies