Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors Scan News Headlines? The Prophetic Vision for Going-Concern Opinions

46 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2021 Last revised: 19 Jul 2022

Deniz Appelbaum

Montclair State University

Huijue Kelly Duan

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Hanxin Hu

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Ting Sun

The College of New Jersey

Date Written: August 16, 2021

Abstract

Using Reuters data and machine learning, this paper explores the potential role of linguistic features of 972,144 business news headlines in going-concern opinion predictions. This research identifies 26,857 firm-year observations from their headlines from 2004 to 2016. For each observation in the sample, 286 linguistic features are extracted from the news headlines, including the frequency of company mentions, sentiment features (identified by using three advanced natural language processing (NLP) tools: TextBlob, Flair, and VADER), and the frequency of financial topics mentions. The most important linguistic features were selected with the Balanced Random Forest algorithm. Next, the selected news features are combined with audit-related variables, financial variables, and market variables incrementally in logistic regressions to examine the association between those variables and the dependent variable, going-concern opinions. Specifically, to simulate the dynamic process of audit at different stages, seven models are developed. The results show that the linguistic features of business news headlines are significantly associated with the going-concern opinions, especially at earlier stages of the audit process, suggesting business news headlines are important resources of additional information regarding both the audit risk and the company’s business risks in the formation of a going-concern opinion. Press coverage information, and specifically news headlines, influences the auditor’s risk perception of a potential going concern issue, the issuance of which may help decrease future litigation risk.

Keywords: News headlines, Machine learning, Natural language processing, Bankruptcies, Going Concern

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Appelbaum, Deniz and Duan, Huijue Kelly and Hu, Hanxin and Sun, Ting, Auditors Scan News Headlines? The Prophetic Vision for Going-Concern Opinions (August 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3906091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3906091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
Guide to Audit Data Analytics
AICPA Posted: 2017
A Akbik , T Bergmann , D Blythe , K Rasul , S Schweter , R Vollgraf
FLAIR: An easy-to-use framework for state-of-the-art NLP Posted: 2019
A Akbik , T Bergmann , R Vollgraf
Pooled contextualized embeddings for named entity recognition
Paper read at Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter , volume 1 Posted: 2019
A Akbik , D Blythe , R Vollgraf
Contextual string embeddings for sequence labeling
Paper read at Proceedings of the 27th international conference on computational linguistics Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,244
RANK
294,806
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies