Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wearing Out the Watchdog: The Impact of SEC Case Backlog on the Formal Investigation Process

59 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2021

Samuel B. Bonsall

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Eric Holzman

Indiana University

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 29, 2021

Abstract

We examine a comprehensive set of investigations by SEC Division of Enforcement offices to provide evidence on the consequences of busyness on the formal investigation process. Our evidence suggests that higher office case backlog decreases the likelihood of investigation initiation. Consistent with the SEC’s commitment to its stated priorities, our results show no evidence that higher backlog affects the SEC’s ability to pursue cases with revenue recognition concerns and high insider trading. Surprisingly and inconsistent with SEC priorities, our findings indicate that busy SEC offices are less likely to pursue cases with the largest shareholder losses — likely because large-loss cases take longer to close. Backlog also appears to impact pursued investigations, leading to longer investigations, a lower AAER likelihood, and smaller SEC or DOJ penalties. Our final analyses provide modest small sample evidence that uninvestigated firms exhibit lower earnings quality and returns in future periods. Collectively, our evidence suggests that busyness impacts the investigation process, ranging from case priorities to sanctions and penalties assessed.

Keywords: SEC enforcement, investigations, misreporting, financial misconduct

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bonsall, Samuel B. and Holzman, Eric and Miller, Brian P., Wearing Out the Watchdog: The Impact of SEC Case Backlog on the Formal Investigation Process (June 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3912645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3912645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Insider trading before accounting scandals
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2015
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
K Anderson , T Yohn
The effect of 10-K restatements on firm value, information asymmetries, and investors' reliance on earnings Posted: 2002
S Arif , N Marshall , J Schroeder , T Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
Load more
17 Citations
Kalin S. Kolev , Daeun Lee , Monica Neamtiu
SEC confidential treatment and regulatory filing reviews
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 107069 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Tingting Liu , Tao Shu , Erin Towery , Jasmine Wang
The role of external regulators in mergers and acquisitions: evidence from SEC comment letters
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 451 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Li Fang , Jeffrey Pittman , Yinqi Zhang , Yuping Zhao
Corporate Monitoring and Misreporting: The Role of Rules-Based and Principles-Based Accounting Standards
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 107 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Omri Even-Tov , Jiarui (Andy) Su , Philip Wang
Do Information Processing Costs Matter to Regulators? Evidence from the U.S. Mortgage Companies' Supervision
71 Pages · Posted: 28 Dec 2022 · Last revised: 22 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 622
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
652
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,174
RANK
61,303
17 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies