Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examination of Cybercrime and Its Effects on Corporate Stock Value

Journal of Information, Communication & Ethics in Society, 2019, 17(1), 42-60

35 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2021

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Amie Jones

Murray State University

Leigh Johnson

Murray State University - Accounting Department

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Cybercrime is a prevalent and serious threat to publicly traded companies. Defending company information systems from cybercrime is one of the most important aspects of technology management. Cybercrime often results in stolen assets and lost business, but also damages a company’s reputation, which in turn may affect the company's stock market value. This is a serious concern to company managers, financial analysts, investors, and creditors. This paper examines the impact of cybercrime on stock prices of a sample of publicly traded companies. Stock prices were negatively affected in all time-periods examined, significantly so in one period.

Keywords: Cybercrime, Computer security, Computer ethics, Financial information, Business ethics, Stock value

JEL Classification: M15, M31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Katherine Taken and Jones, Amie and Johnson, Leigh and Smith, Murphy, Examination of Cybercrime and Its Effects on Corporate Stock Value (2019). Journal of Information, Communication & Ethics in Society, 2019, 17(1), 42-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3918524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Anthem
About Anthem, Inc
Anthem. Retrieved on Posted: 2016-11-02
M C Arcuri , M Brogi , G Gandolfi
How Does Cyber Crime Affect Firms? The Effect of Information Security Breaches on Stock Returns
ITASEC , p. 175 - 193 Posted: 2017
Brooks Barnes , Michael Cieply
Sony Cberattack, First a Nuissance, Swiftly Grew Into a Firestorm
The New York Times. Retrieved on Posted: 2014-11-02
P Choong , E Hutton , P S Richardson , Rinaldo , V
Protecting the Brand: Evaluating the Cost of Security Breach from a Marketer's Perspective
Journal of Marketing Development and Competitiveness , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
817
RANK
331,544
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies