Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Techniques to Minimize Accounting Related Fraud and Errors: A Qualitative Analysis with the Interview Method

Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ), University of Pittsburgh Press (USA), Vol. 11, No: 1, ISSN: 2158-8708 (online), https://doi.org/10.5195/emaj.2021.232, pp.95-103, https://emaj.pitt.edu/ojs/index.php/emaj/article/download/232/423

9 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2021

Cevdet Kizil

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Erol Muzır

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Vildan Yılmaz

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 8, 2021

Abstract

Accounting is more integrated with the technology today compared to the previous years. The increase in a variety of technological developments and commercial transactions has further increased the number and type of errors as well as frauds related to the accounting profession. This causes misleading information for several stakeholders. Stakeholdes sometimes make false decisions based on the financial statements created as a result of false and fraudulent transactions. In order to minimize the errors and frauds concerning the accounting system of enterprises, effective internal controls and auditing systems should be in order. It is evident that, setting up the required internal controls and auditing systems reduce asset losses and provide great benefits in the long run for firms. Existence of strong internal controls and auditing systems in enterprises has gained great importance in Turkey. This study provides information about the audit techniques that can minimize accounting related frauds and errors in businesses. The research includes and employs an interview with auditing professionals as the research methodology. Auditors working within three audit firms were selected by simple random sampling via the LinkedIn social media. The three participants were directed 10 semi- structured and open-ended questions. Qualitative analysis was adopted for this study. According to the results of research, companies use a number of tools to prevent accounting related frauds and errors. These most effective tools to minimize the frauds and errors are detected as internal auditing, internal controls and independent (external) auditing. Auditing professionals have high awareness about accounting related fraud and errors. But, auditor independency should be higher, proactive approach must be utilized and auditors must closely follow the new laws and regulations in addition to being familiar with the firms’s operations and sectors to minimize the fraud and errors. The Benford's law, artificial neural networks, analytical methods, data mining, red flags and analytical methods are commonly used by the auditors against frauds and errors. In general, the internal controls and auditing professions are in a much better situation today in Turkey compared to the previous years. But, this is still not adequate and there is a long way to complete ahead based on the opinions of auditing professionals.

Keywords: Accounting, Auditing, Internal Controls, Fraud, Error

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kizil, Cevdet and Muzır, Erol and Yılmaz, Vildan, Auditing Techniques to Minimize Accounting Related Fraud and Errors: A Qualitative Analysis with the Interview Method (September 8, 2021). Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ), University of Pittsburgh Press (USA), Vol. 11, No: 1, ISSN: 2158-8708 (online), https://doi.org/10.5195/emaj.2021.232, pp.95-103, https://emaj.pitt.edu/ojs/index.php/emaj/article/download/232/423, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3920551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Acfe
ACFE 2008 Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud&Abuse. ACFE Website Posted: 2008
Acfe
ACFE 2010 Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud&Abuse -European Edition. ACFE Website Posted: 2010
S Adalı , C Kızıl
A Research on the Responbility of Accounting Professionals to Determine and Prevent Accounting Errors and Frauds: Edirne Sample
Emerging Markets Journal (EMAJ) , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 64 Posted: 2017
V Akman , B Acar , C Kızıl , T Aksoy , Ş Uzay , T Aksoy , U Hacioğlu
Auditing Ecosystem and Strategic Accounting in the Digital Era
Relationship between Fraud Auditing and Forensic Accounting , volume 10 , p. 60 - 66 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
167,146
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies