Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Capital Market Recognize Financial Misrepresentations? – Fundamental Value and Market Analysis

41 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2021 Last revised: 28 Sep 2022

Ingolf Kloppenburg

University of Turku

Date Written: September 27, 2022

Abstract

The efficiency of a (capital) market is a key element in economics (e.g. Marshall 2009; Mankiw 2014). This paper attempts to shed more light on the market efficiency hypothesis in cases where the rare event of a deliberate violation of the GAAP has taken place (misrepresentation). The aim of the paper is twofold. The first aim is to determine the extent to which misrepresented firms are overvalued due to the misrepresentation. I, therefore, compare the actual firm’s value with a hypothetical firm’s value based on the fundamental value of the firm without misrepresentation. The latter is calculated with conventional valuation methods. The second aim is to compare the value difference with the market reaction once the misrepresentation occurs to test market efficiency. The firm’s value difference, computed in the first phase, is then compared with the market reaction around the date when the misrepresentation was revealed to the public e.g. with a restatement announcement. The method is thereby an OLS-regression. The analysis is based on a dataset of misrepresenting firms detected by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (AAER cases). The results indicate a substantially higher market value due to the misrepresentation, depending on the method, of an average value of up to 29.6% and median values ranging from 1.6% to 17.6%. Moreover, the results indicate that the market reaction once the misrepresentation is revealed is independent of the value difference. The results are robust for the valuation method and market reaction horizon. My interpretation is that the results provide statistical and economical evidence of an anomaly for the market efficiency hypothesis.

Keywords: Market Efficiency Hypothesis, AAER, Financial Misrepresentation, Accounting Fraud

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, G32

Suggested Citation:

Kloppenburg, Ingolf, Does the Capital Market Recognize Financial Misrepresentations? – Fundamental Value and Market Analysis (September 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3926293 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3926293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Agrawal , K Tandon
Anomalies or illusions? Evidence from stock markets in eighteen countries
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 106 Posted: 1994
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J Cox , Q Dupont , J Karpoff , R Sloan ; Arthaud-Day , M , S Certo , C Dalton , D Dalton
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Academy of Management Journal , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 1491 - 1518 Posted: 2006
K H Bae , S W Jeong
The value-relevance of earnings and book value, ownership structure, and business group affiliation: Evidence from Korean business groups
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 34 , issue 5-6 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 1978
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
724
RANK
572,087
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies