Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Managing Occupational Fraud Add Value?

61 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2021

Lewis Barnes

University of South Wales

Date Written: February 26, 2021

Abstract

The past few years have seen the emergence of new developments in the field of occupational fraud. These have manifested themselves in the forms of both insider trading and the misrepresentation of figures in financial statement reporting. In either case, the result is a loss to stakeholders. The proposed study sets out to establish whether the systemic management of occupational fraud can add value to the firm’s wider risk management practices. It will seek to establish how the nature of these value-adding factors can be identified and analysed.

The methodology adopted by this research is the collection of primary data from risk man-agers and senior-level security officers of more than fifty organisations. The study-framework employs a quantitative research design via the application of quantitative data-analysis techniques. These include descriptive and demographic statistics, frequency analysis, correlation, and regression.

The principal finding of the study are that:

• the use of technology, artificial intelligence and blockchain, alongside government regulation,
reinforces fraud risk management.

• the removal of third parties adds value to the risk-management practices of the organisation
concerned.

• the use of whistleblowing is shown to be an effective risk-prevention measure.

• the existence of ‘excessive trust’ relationships can increase the risk of occupational fraud.

The overall conclusion is that the possibility of occupational fraud can be managed and significantly reduced. This can be achieved with the assistance of artificial intelligence, block-chain and whistleblowing.


Keywords: Occupational Fraud, fraudulent risk, risk management, value addition, occupational risk, whistleblowing, corporate investigations

Suggested Citation:

Barnes, Lewis, Does Managing Occupational Fraud Add Value? (February 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3941767 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3941767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
134 References
S Abutabenjeh , R Jaradat
Clarification of research design, research methods, and research methodology: A guide for public administration researchers and practitioners , volume 36 , p. 237 - 258 Posted: 2018
H Agnew
Jim Chanos: 'We are in the golden age of fraud Posted: 2020-12-24
H Alavi
Mitigating the risk of fraud in documentary letters of credit
Baltic Journal of European Studies , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 156 Posted: 2016
A Aleem , Wakefield , M Button
Addressing the weakest link: implementing converged security
Security Journal , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 236 - 248 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
891
RANK
495,993
134 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies