Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender Diversity and Financial Statement Fraud

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 41, No. 2, 2022

43 Pages Posted: 13 May 2022

Yang Wang

University of Dundee

Date Written: October 16, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the role of gender diversity in fraud commission and detection with a view to identifying whether companies with more female corporate leaders are less likely to be involved in financial statement fraud. Using a bivariate probit model, the role of female corporate leaders in financial statement fraud commission and detection is examined for Chinese listed companies from 2007 to 2018. The representation of female corporate leaders increases the likelihood of fraud detection, thus reducing firms’ propensity to engage in fraud. The finding confirms that women are risk averse and more committed to ethical practices than men in corporate leadership positions. Moreover, this impact of gender diversity is contingent upon the nature of ultimate controllers of listed companies: more female representation in top leadership roles can mitigate fraud commission or detect fraud effectively in non-state-owned enterprises, but not in state-owned enterprises. In addition, the recent anti-corruption campaign initiated by Chinese President Jinping Xi is a powerful form of public governance. Female corporate leaders play a more positive role in mitigating fraud commission and detecting fraud commission in the post-campaign period than in the pre-campaign period.

Keywords: Gender diversity, Financial statement fraud, Bivariate probit model, Anti-corruption campaign, State-owned enterprises

JEL Classification: G30; K42

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Yang, Gender Diversity and Financial Statement Fraud (October 16, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 41, No. 2, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3943939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
B Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation and policies
Journal of Accounting & Economics Posted: 2019
P Alam , K A Petruska
Conservatism, SEC investigation, and fraud
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , p. 399 - 431 Posted: 2012
A Aluja
Sensitivity to punishment, sensitivity to reward and sexuality in females
Personality and Individual Differences , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 10 Posted: 2004
Load more
4 Citations
P. Raghavendra Rau , Jinhua Wang
Do Investors Pay Less Attention to Women (Fund Managers)?
73 Pages · Posted: 21 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 19 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 487
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andrews Owusu , Alaa Zalata
Credit Rating Agency Response to Appointment of Female Auditors: Evidence from the UK
Owusu, A. & Zalata, A. (2022). Credit rating agency response to appointment of female auditors: Evidence from the UK. Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming. · 37 Pages · Posted: 9 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 98
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John Ashton , Yang Wang , Yifei Zhang
Does Mutual Fund Ownership Increase Corporate Environmental Spending?
FINANA-D-22-00755 · 35 Pages · Posted: 8 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 139
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alessandro Ghio , Zeila Occhipinti , Roberto Verona
The Consideration of Diversity in the Accounting Literature: a Systematic Literature Review
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, ESCP Business School Research Paper · 44 Pages · Posted: 11 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 426
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,076
RANK
115,595
4 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies