Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Fraud Detection and Prevention in the Nigerian Public Sector

Ismail Alhassan, Forensic Accounting and Fraud Detection and Prevention in the Nigerian Public Sector, International Journal of Empirical Finance and Management Sciences 03(2021):12-22

11 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Editor IJEFMS

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Isma'ila Alhassan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract

This paper is aimed at empirically evaluating the relationship between forensic accounting and fraud detection and prevention in the Nigerian ministries. The study used a survey design using questionnaire to obtain data from the primary source. Sample size of one fifty (50) respondents consisting of auditors and accountants in ten (10) ministries chosen from FCT Abuja in Nigeria. Analysis of variance, (ANOVA) was adopted to test the hypotheses at 5% significant level. Findings of the study revealed that the use of forensic accounting in the Nigerian ministries is useful in discovering fraud; furthermore, significant correlation between the forensic accounting and the legal action in Nigerian courts. Similarly, use of forensic accounting in the ministries is also valuable in averting fraud. The study therefore, recommends that the ministries should install an uninterrupted enhancement in the internal control system and introduce erudite and competent scrutiny and monitoring, effective accounting system capable of encouraging the officers to carry out their responsibilities with integrity. Forensic accountant should be made to undergo appropriate training on forensic accounting skills. Furthermore, officers in the ministries should adopt truthfulness, accountability, justice, objectivity, as an essential ethical responsibility to diminish the rate of fraudulent practices in Nigeria.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Fraud Detection, Fraud Prevention Corruption, Public Sector

Suggested Citation:

IJEFMS, Editor and Alhassan, Isma'ila, Forensic Accounting and Fraud Detection and Prevention in the Nigerian Public Sector (March 31, 2021). Ismail Alhassan, Forensic Accounting and Fraud Detection and Prevention in the Nigerian Public Sector, International Journal of Empirical Finance and Management Sciences 03(2021):12-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3951837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
ACFE perspective. Proceedings of the International Conference on Accounting Studies (ICAS) , p. 501 - 505 Posted: 2015
I Xxxviii Umar , R S Samsudin , M Mohamed
Adoption Of Forensic Accounting In Fraud Detection Process By Anti-Corruption Agency: A Conceptual Framework
International Journal of Management Research & Review , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,203
RANK
282,907
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies