Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Financial Reporting in the Banking Sector of Bangladesh: A Prediction

International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics, 8(2), 62-81, 2021

20 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2022

Md. Rezaul Karim

University of Dhaka

Muhammad Armaan Hossain

University of Dhaka

Date Written: February 1, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to predict the areas in financial statements susceptible to fraud in the banking sector of Bangladesh. Data of 13 years ranging from 2006 to 2018 of 29 listed banks in Bangladesh were examined for the purpose of this study. Financial data suggested by International Standard on Auditing (ISA) 240 as fraud risk indicators were used as the independent variables and banks identified by Center for Policy Dialogue (CPD) to be engaged in fraud, scam and heists were taken as dependent variable. Multiplayer Perception Network (MLP), a class of feed forward Artificial Neural Network (ANN) model was used as the analytical tool. It is found that loan disbursement, assets, profit, operating expenses and tax are the areas that can signal the probable fraud in financial statements of the listed banks of Bangladesh. The findings of this study will have policy implications for auditors and the regulators of money market in Bangladesh.

Suggested Citation:

Karim, Md. Rezaul and Hossain, Muhammad Armaan, Fraudulent Financial Reporting in the Banking Sector of Bangladesh: A Prediction (February 1, 2021). International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics, 8(2), 62-81, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3955184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D B K Agyei-Mensah
The determinants of financial ratio disclosures and quality: Evidence from an emerging market
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 188 - 211 Posted: 2015
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit Posted: 2002
Bangladesh Bank
Posted: 2017
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , P D Lapides
Fraudulent financial reporting: consideration of industry traits and corporate governance mechanisms
Accounting Horizons , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 441 - 454 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,489
RANK
162,978
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies