Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Stakeholder Influence: The Surprising Effect of Customer Fraud on Suppliers

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 800/2021

89 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021 Last revised: 18 Nov 2021

Shantanu Banerjee

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance; Lancaster University - Management School

Sudipto Dasgupta

Chinese University of Hong Kong, ABFER, CEPR, and ECGI

Rui Shi

University of Liverpool Management School

Date Written: November 7, 2021

Abstract

We show that influential stakeholders can distort corporate policies when they cannot commit to a long-term relationship. Following the revelation of financial fraud by a major customer, suppliers surprisingly outperform a control group in terms of sales growth, Tobin’s Q and survival likelihood over a ten-year period. Our results suggest that, prior to the fraud revelation, managers’ short decision horizons and aversion to short-term risk or uncertainty enables influential customers to to demand relationship-specific innovation when their bargaining power is stronger, leading to suboptimal diversification. When customer bargaining power weakens, suppliers engage in riskier and novel innovation, which diversifies the customer base.

Keywords: Playing it safe, Corporate fraud, Explorative innovation, Exploitative innovation, Supply chain

JEL Classification: G14, G3, L14, L24

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Shantanu and Banerjee, Shantanu and Dasgupta, Sudipto and SHI, RUI, The Dark Side of Stakeholder Influence: The Surprising Effect of Customer Fraud on Suppliers (November 7, 2021). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 800/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3958448 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3958448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
D Acemoglu , V M Carvalho , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
The network origins of aggregate fluctuations
Econometrica , volume 80 , p. 1977 - 2016 Posted: 2012
D Acemoglu , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
Microeconomic origins of macroeconomic tail risks
American Economic Review , volume 107 , p. 54 - 108 Posted: 2017
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
J W Allen , G M Phillips
Corporate equity ownership, strategic alliances, and product market relationships
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2791 - 2815 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
233,304
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies