Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Remote Audits Impact Auditor Liability Exposure? Exploring Jurors’ Perceptions of Interview Evidence Collected during the COVID-19 Pandemic

32 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021

Jillian Alderman

Pepperdine University - Graziadio School of Business and Management

Date Written: November 2021

Abstract

The COVID-19 Pandemic has arguably accelerated auditors’ shifts to 100% remote audits, with unknown consequences on auditor liability exposure. In this experimental study, a moderated-mediation model is proposed and tested to explore the joint effects of the modality of auditors’ interview evidence collection and the COVID-19 Pandemic on jurors’ perceptions of auditors’ intentions to collect high quality evidence and auditor liability. 158 jury eligible participants read a case that manipulated the client interview modality (face-to-face vs. remote/virtual) and the timing of the audit (before vs. during the COVID-19 Pandemic) in a 2x2 between-subjects experiment examining jurors’ perceptions of auditors who failed to detect collusion. After reading the case, participants provided their perceptions of auditors’ intent to collect high quality evidence and auditor liability for shareholder losses. Results indicate that, while the risks are likely to be lessened during the COVID-19 Pandemic time period, auditors may be exposed to increased risk of liability for collecting interview evidence virtually outside of the COVID-19 Pandemic time period.

Keywords: Auditor Liability, Remote Audits, Juror Decisions, Audit Evidence, COVID-19 Pandemic

Suggested Citation:

Alderman, Jillian, How Do Remote Audits Impact Auditor Liability Exposure? Exploring Jurors’ Perceptions of Interview Evidence Collected during the COVID-19 Pandemic (November 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969372 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3969372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
K Albitar , A Gerged , M Kikhia , H Hussainey , K
Auditing in times of social distancing: The effect of COVID-19 on auditing quality
International Journal of Accounting and Information Management Posted: 2020
J Alderman
Does auditor gender influence auditor liability? Exploring the impact of the crime congruency effect on jurors' perceptions of auditor negligence
Advances in accounting , volume 38 , p. 75 - 87 Posted: 2017
J Alderman
Auditor Litigation Risk: A Review of Past Perspectives, Recent Developments, and Emerging Issues
Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting , volume 13 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
J Alderman , S J Jollineau
Can audit committee expertise increase external auditors' litigation risk? the moderating effect of audit committee independence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 717 - 740 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,449
RANK
174,532
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies