Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Process Mining as an Assurance-Tool in the Three-Lines-of-Defense Model

29 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2021

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

QING HUANG

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 28, 2021

Abstract

Process mining has now become a standard in many companies as part of process control in various areas. Its application in the context of ensuring good corporate governance has also been discussed by previous papers for specific areas. This paper integrates the possible approaches to use process mining in the context of assurance activities against the background of the three-lines-of-defense model. By using specific use cases, the areas of application and the challenges of process mining for assurance are further discussed.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, Risk Management, Internal Controls, Process Mining, Assurance

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and HUANG, QING and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., Using Process Mining as an Assurance-Tool in the Three-Lines-of-Defense Model (November 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3973155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3973155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Introduction to data analysis for auditors and accountants
The CPA Journal , volume 7 , p. 32 - 37 Posted: 2017
R Agrawal , D Gunopulos , F Leymann
Mining process models from workflow logs
International Conference on Extending Database Technology , p. 467 - 483 Posted: 1998
M G Alles , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Feasibility and economics of continuous assurance
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 138 Posted: 2002
G Baader , H Krcmar
Reducing false positives in fraud detection: Combining the red flag approach with process mining
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 31 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,581
RANK
147,101
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies