Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Rule–Driven Regulatory Capital Management and Its Real Effects for U.S. Life Insurers

67 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021 Last revised: 12 May 2025

Qingkai Dong

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Sehwa Kim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: April 24, 2025

Abstract

We document that U.S. life insurers exercise discretion to mitigate the adverse impact of a statutory accounting rule on their regulatory capital adequacy, as well as real effects of this discretionary behavior. We employ Actuarial Guideline (AG) 43, which increased loss reserves for minimum guarantees embedded in variable annuities, as a shock to the capital adequacy of the insurers that sell those annuities. AG 43 became effective at year-end 2009, subject to an optional linear three-year grade-in period. We first conduct two descriptive analyses of the effects of AG 43 on more affected insurers relative to less affected insurers. We show that more affected insurers (1) sharply increased their reserves for variable annuities in 2011 at the end of the grade-in period, consistent with these increases being due to the grade-in of the rule, not the receding financial crisis, and (2) reduced their variable annuity market share in the same year. We then predict and provide evidence that, relative to unaffected (less affected) insurers, (more) affected insurers took two discretionary actions to offset the decreases in their capital adequacy under AG 43. We show that (more) affected insurers (1) ceded (more) insurance coverage to unauthorized captive reinsurers subject to lax regulation, transactions referred to as “shadow insurance,” and (2) (further) delayed other-than-temporary impairments of investment securities. Lastly, we show that affected insurers that engaged in these forms of capital management mitigated their losses of variable annuity market share, likely an unintended consequence of the rule.

JEL Classification: G22, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Qingkai and Kim, Sehwa and Ryan, Stephen G.,
Accounting Rule–Driven Regulatory Capital Management and Its Real Effects for U.S. Life Insurers
(April 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3975641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3975641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
V Acharya
The Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III: Intentions, unintended consequences, and lessons for emerging markets Posted: 2012
R Adiel
Reinsurance and the management of regulatory capital ratios and taxes in the property-casualty industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 207 - 240 Posted: 1996
J Altonji , T Elder , C Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of Catholic schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
A Arya , J Glover , B Mittendorf , G Narayanamoorthy
Unintended consequences of regulating disclosures: The case of Regulation Fair Disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 243 - 252 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,552
RANK
147,865
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies