Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting as a Tool for Identifying Financial Information Anomalies in Kenyan Parastatals: A Focus on the Public Universities

11 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2021

Timothy Kalume Kahindi

Technical University of Mombasa

Charles Guandaru Kamau

Technical University of Mombasa

Date Written: December 5, 2021

Abstract

It is crucial for any institution to report factual financial information to owners and other stakeholders for them to make an informed economic decision. Sometimes this financial information reported may contain man made forensic Accounting. This paper documents forensic accounting as a tool to identifying financial information anomalies of public universities in Kenya as its main objective. The specified aim of the paper were to highlight the contribution of proactive forensic audit as a tool for identifying financial information anomalies in public universities, to examine the contribution of forensic examination as a tool for identifying financial information anomalies of public universities and to look at the contribution of litigation support as a tool of identifying anomalies in financial information of public universities in Kenya. The research was guided by the following theories;, Fraud triangle theory, fraud diamond theory and fraud scale theory. The paper explored an ex-post facto research design that was used to synthesize evidence from secondary data to establish facts. The paper found out that proactive forensic auditing will act as a cure for easy recognition and prevention of anomalies in Kenya public universities. Besides it deduced that where there is proper forensic examination of financial anomalies it helps to strengthening the credibility of financial reporting. The paper also discovered that lawsuit services help the universities to prevent wastage of income through income smoothing by reducing the likelihood of lawbreaking behavior. The study recommends the management of the universities to establish a forensic audit unit in their institutions, employ a proper forensic examination of financial statements and use lawsuit services do reduce the likely danger of lawbreaking behaviors.

Keywords: Financial Anomalies, Forensic accounting, Financial information, Forensic auditing

Suggested Citation:

Kalume Kahindi, Timothy and Kamau, Charles Guandaru, Forensic Accounting as a Tool for Identifying Financial Information Anomalies in Kenyan Parastatals: A Focus on the Public Universities (December 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3976444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3976444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Dabaghia Abbadi , Alrawashdeh & Darwazeh
The Role of Government and Auditing Offices in Activating the Forensic Accounting to Discover Financial Fraud. Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journa , volume 25 Posted: 2021
Adefila
Research Methodology in Behavioural Science Posted: 2008
E Agbo , I Obodoekwe , E
Correlation of Forensic Accounting Practice with Fraud Control and Corporate Governance in Nigerian Banks
Academic Journal of Current Research , volume 7 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
African Journal of Commercial Studies
African Journal of Commercial Studies Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,173
RANK
202,787
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies