Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud in Startups: What Stakeholders Need to Know

43 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2021

Kimberly C. Gleason

American University of Sharjah

Yezen H. Kannan

Zayed University; Duquesne University

Christian Rauch

Umm Al Quwain University

Date Written: December 6, 2021

Abstract

For much of the investing public, startup firms represent a relatively undiscovered geyser of potentially fraudulent behavior due to a number of practices inherent in startup governance, funding and valuation. We explain the fundraising and valuation processes of startups and discuss the conflicts of interest between entrepreneurs, venture capital firms, and stakeholders in the context of startup corporate governance. Further, using two high profile examples of startup fraud – WeWork and Zenefits – we demonstrate how startup practices can be extended to the Fraud Triangle, and issue a call to action for the accounting profession to take a greater role in protecting the public from startup fraud. We then offer recommendations for regulators and standards entities.

Keywords: Startups, Entrepreneurial Finance, Fraud Triangle, Stakeholders, Unicorns, Venture Capital

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, L26, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gleason, Kimberly C. and Kannan, Yezen H. and Rauch, Christian, Fraud in Startups: What Stakeholders Need to Know (December 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3978552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3978552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
Manuel Adelino , Song Ma , David Robinson
Firm Age, Investment Opportunities, and Job Creation
The Journal of Finance , volume 72 , issue 3 , p. 999 - 1038 Posted: 2017
Agarwal , Brad M Vikas , Si Barber , Cheng
Allaudeen Hameed and Ayako Yasuda. 2021. Private Company Valuations by Mutual Funds
Philippe Aghion , Patrick Bolton
An Incomplete Contracts Approach to Financial Contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Kristian D Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,754
RANK
257,340
2 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies