Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Corporate Whistleblower Laws Affect Bank Loan Contracting?

53 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2022 Last revised: 24 Jan 2022

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Kunpeng Sun

Central University of Finance and Economics

Hong Xie

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 5, 2022

Abstract

We employ a generalized difference-in-differences analysis that exploits the staggered adoptions of state False Claims Acts (FCAs) to examine the implications of state whistleblower laws for bank loan contracting terms. We find that loan interest spreads are significantly reduced after firms are exposed to state general FCAs relative to firms not exposed to state general FCAs. We also find significant reductions in the number of general covenants, the number of financial covenants, and the probability of collateral requirement after firms are exposed to state general FCAs. To shed light on potential mechanisms, we provide evidence that financial reporting quality and audit quality increase after firms are exposed to state whistleblower laws. We also find that riskier firms exhibit a larger reduction in loan cost following exposure to state general FCAs. Overall, our findings suggest that whistleblower laws reduce firms’ cost of debt financing.

Keywords: Whistleblower Laws, False Claims Act (FCA), Bank Loan Contracting Terms

Suggested Citation:

Lobo, Gerald J. and Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Sun, Kunpeng and Xie, Hong, Do Corporate Whistleblower Laws Affect Bank Loan Contracting? (January 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4001014 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4001014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
P Alam , K Petruska
Conservatism, SEC investigation, and fraud
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 399 - 431 Posted: 2012
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings1
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
M D Beneish
The detection of earnings manipulation
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 24 - 36 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,924
RANK
213,801
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies