Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Google's Cost Sharing Arrangement: Bride of Frankenstein

72 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2022

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Date Written: December 20, 2021

Abstract

This paper performs a forensic analysis of Google's transfer pricing cost sharing arrangement based on forensic economic analysis of public information, including tax litigation in France, tax hearings conducted in the United Kingdom, information from a related U.S. tax court case, documents disclosed in a European data privacy investigation, published materials containing insider accounts of Google’s operations, books, periodicals and other sources. The paper finds that Google appears to have violated U.S. transfer pricing laws in 2009 and later years, in ways that appear to have invalidated its cost sharing arrangement but which were not detected by the IRS. These tax violations appear to have led to the potential of tax assessments by the IRS of more than $38 billion and up to $50 billion. Google is now a subsidiary of Alphabet Inc., and the company's reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions were $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2020 – reserves that are about 90% less than this tax adjustment risk. The ability of the IRS to apply periodic adjustments is not limited by any statute of limitations. Google’s cost sharing arrangement also appeared to violate the economic substance doctrine, and regulations governing the taxation of effectively connected income, primarily because its cost sharing arrangement in 2003 was implemented as a sham transaction with an Irish shell company, for which the IRS nevertheless awarded it an Advanced Pricing Agreement (APA) in 2006. Interestingly, the IRS is currently challenging what looks to be a similar profit shifting arrangement at Perrigo Company plc, despite having reviewed and approved Google’s arrangement, that continued without any apparent IRS challenge before Google eliminated it after the 2019 tax year.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Auditing, Forensic Economics, Tax Compliance and Tax Enforcement

JEL Classification: F23, H26, H32, H83, K34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L, Google's Cost Sharing Arrangement: Bride of Frankenstein (December 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4023744 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4023744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,590
RANK
248,977
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies