Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Loss Harvesting with Cryptocurrencies

70 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2022 Last revised: 21 Sep 2022

Lin William Cong

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Daniel Rabetti

National University of Singapore (NUS); Harvard Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2021

Abstract

We describe the landscape of taxation in the crypto markets, especially that concerning U.S. taxpayers, and examine how recent increases in tax scrutiny have led to changes in trading behavior by crypto traders. We predict under a simple conceptual framework and then empirically document that increased tax scrutiny leads crypto investors to utilize legal tax planning with tax-loss harvesting as an alternative to non-compliance. In particular, domestic traders increase tax-loss harvesting following the increase in tax scrutiny, and U.S. exchanges exhibit a significantly greater amount of wash trading. Additional findings suggest that broad-based and targeted changes in tax scrutiny can differentially affect crypto traders' preference for U.S.-based exchanges. We also discuss new gray areas for tax regulation relating to new crypto assets such as Non-Fungible Tokens and Decentralized Finance protocols that further highlight the importance of coordinating tax policy and other regulations.

Keywords: Bitcoin, Cryptocurrencies, DeFi, IRS, NFT, Regulation, Taxation, Trading Behavior.

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G29, K29, K42, O16.

Suggested Citation:

Cong, Lin William and Landsman, Wayne R. and Maydew, Edward L. and Rabetti, Daniel, Tax-Loss Harvesting with Cryptocurrencies (October 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4033617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4033617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
914
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,449
RANK
55,451
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies