Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Practices and Blockchain Accounting Systems

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 23(1): 97-148 (2022)

52 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2022

Umesh Mahtani

Vidyashilp University

Date Written: February 16, 2022

Abstract

Double-entry accounting has been used globally for the past six hundred years and has become the base for all corporate financial reporting. Blockchain technology with distributed ledger now provides a new method of accounting termed “triple-entry accounting”. This method consists of recording and storage of business transactions, as a third entry on the blockchain. This third entry is expected to deliver a system that is trustworthy, immutable, and transparent. This study conducts a detailed review of the present literature on triple-entry accounting with blockchain technology and its impact on fraudulent practices. The review shows current literature has limited information on how this methodology will deter financial and accounting fraud. Drawing on the case studies of twenty-four companies involved in fraudulent practices globally, this paper describes common practices in manipulating financial statements, falsifying accounting records, and fraudulent banking transactions. The study explains the mechanics of how these practices can be prevented using triple-entry accounting in the blockchain environment and how the technique will bring about changes in the audit process and in the roles of internal and external auditors in the organization. The study recommends research propositions focused on governance and financial performance of a company when this method is adopted.

Keywords: Triple-entry accounting, Auditing, Accounting Fraud, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G34

Suggested Citation:

Mahtani, Umesh, Fraudulent Practices and Blockchain Accounting Systems (February 16, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 23(1): 97-148 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4036726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
741
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,019
RANK
78,677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies