Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unraveling Financial Fraud: The Role of the Board of Directors and External Advisors in Conducting Independent Internal Investigations

67 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2022

Rebecca Files

Baylor University

Michelle Liu

CUNY Hunter College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 25, 2022

Abstract

Although firms are encouraged by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Department of Justice (DOJ) to conduct internal investigations following financial misconduct, prior research finds few benefits for investigating firms. This study examines a novel aspect of internal investigations, namely whether the investigation is conducted by independent leaders or external advisors, and explores the impact of these participants on investigation outcomes. We find that firms whose internal investigations are led by independent teams are more likely to retain external advisors, have a higher likelihood of chief executive officer (CEO) turnover, and face a lower likelihood of an SEC enforcement action than do firms whose investigations are led by non-independent teams. Our findings demonstrate that the SEC grants enforcement leniency to cooperative firms. These results also suggest that appointing independent groups to lead internal investigations protects the firm, at the expense of the CEO, following accounting fraud.

Suggested Citation:

Files, Rebecca and Liu, Michelle, Unraveling Financial Fraud: The Role of the Board of Directors and External Advisors in Conducting Independent Internal Investigations (February 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4044084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4044084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,081
RANK
252,662
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies