Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Money Laundering Reporting Behavior of Iranian Accounting Professionals: Conditions of Threat, Greed, and Encouragement

27 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Vahid Molla Imeny

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Date Written: March 14, 2022

Abstract

Money laundering is an international concern which has affected so many jurisdictions, including developing and developed countries. In this regard, international recommendations and local rules and regulations have defined certain roles for different groups against money laundering. One of these groups are accounting professionals who are expected to report money laundering cases and suspicious activities to the related authorities. Therefore, this research is conducted to investigate Anti-Money Laundering (AML) behavior of accounting professionals. The analysis of data gathered from an online survey of 575 Iranian accounting professionals shows that accounting professionals in Iran are not willing to report suspicious activities in normal, tax, and encouragement conditions. But they are willing to report suspicious activities in threat and greed conditions. Furthermore, we found that Iranian accounting professionals’ age, gender, job, religiosity, and working sector have a significant effect on their willingness to report money laundering cases to the related authorities.

Keywords: Anti-money laundering reporting behavior, Accounting professionals, Greed, threat, Encouragement

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Molla Imeny, Vahid, Anti-Money Laundering Reporting Behavior of Iranian Accounting Professionals: Conditions of Threat, Greed, and Encouragement (March 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4057511 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4057511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
A S Abel , J S Gerson
The CPA's role in fighting money laundering
Journal of Accountancy , volume 191 , issue 6 , p. 26 - 31 Posted: 2001
A.-K Akad
Money-Laundering Practices, Estimation, Regulation, and Commercial and Financial Cross-Border Flows
Revista OEconomica , p. 3 - 4 Posted: 2020
C Albrecht
Religion in the Workplace: Implications for Financial Fraud and Organizational Decision Making
Journal of Management, Spirituality & Religion , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 94 Posted: 2007
B Alcott
Does teacher encouragement influence students' educational progress? A propensity-score matching analysis
Research in Higher Education , volume 58 , issue 7 , p. 773 - 804 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
568,026
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies