Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forced Remediation: The Use of Corporate Monitors in Sanctions for Misconduct

57 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022 Last revised: 30 Jun 2025

Rebecca Files

Baylor University

Gerald S. Martin

American University - Kogod School of Business

Yan (Tricia) Sun

Central Michigan University - School of Accounting

Date Written: June 13, 2025

Abstract

Following securities law violations, regulators can require firms to hire a corporate monitor to implement reforms that limit future misconduct and protect investors. We examine the determinants of including a corporate monitor as equitable relief in an enforcement action, as well as their effectiveness in promoting positive change at a firm. Using a structural equation model that jointly determines monetary and non-monetary sanctions, we find that monitor assignments are related to the nature of the offense, violation severity, and investor harm. We also find that monitors with targeted accounting oversight responsibilities are associated with improved corporate culture, a higher likelihood of financial restatements during their tenure, and enhanced financial reporting credibility at the firms they oversee, relative to enforcement firms without such monitors. While corporate monitors can foster positive change, their impact depends on the scope of their responsibilities.

Keywords: Corporate Monitor, Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Department of Justice, Internal Investigations, Governance

JEL Classification: K22, M14, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Files, Rebecca and Martin, Gerald S. and Sun, Yan (Tricia), Forced Remediation: The Use of Corporate Monitors in Sanctions for Misconduct (June 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4067889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4067889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Amiram , I Goncharov , C Marangoni
Do compliance monitors provide net benefits to firms? Evidence from bribery scandals Posted: 2021
J Arlen
The potentially perverse effects of corporate criminal liability
The Journal of Legal Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 833 - 867 Posted: 1994
I Ayres , J Braithwaite
Responsive regulation: Transcending the deregulation debate Posted: 1992
M Baer
Governing corporate compliance
Boston College Law Review , volume 50 , p. 949 - 1019 Posted: 2009
Load more
2 Citations
Krishnagopal Menon , David D. Williams
Audit Committee Remedial Actions and Regulatory Outcomes following FCPA Investigations
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 189 Posted: 2025
Crossref
LINDSEY A. GALLO , KENDALL V. LYNCH , RIMMY E. TOMY
Out of Site, Out of Mind? The Role of the Government‐Appointed Corporate Monitor
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 61 , issue 5 , p. 1633 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
RANK
303,587
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies