Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Holding Foreign Insiders Accountable

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 22-16

Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper

24 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022 Last revised: 21 Jul 2022

Robert J. Jackson, Jr.

New York University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Bradford Levy

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

While corporate insiders at US-listed, US-domiciled companies must disclose their stock sales electronically within two business days on Form 4, the SEC has exempted insiders at US-listed, foreign-domiciled companies from this requirement (e.g., Astra Zeneca, Alibaba). Instead, these “foreign insiders” report their sales on a paper form mail-filed with the SEC. Using a unique dataset compiled from digitized versions of thousands of paper forms, we examine the stock sales of foreign insiders and compare their trading to that of their US-counterparts. Consistent with a lack of public scrutiny facilitating opportunism, we show that foreign insiders’ stock sales are highly opportunistic, and that opportunistic trading is concentrated in companies that are domiciled in non-extradition countries beyond the reach of US legal authorities: specifically, Russia and China. The average stock sale by foreign insiders affiliated with companies domiciled in these countries is over four times larger than that of US insiders and occurs prior to stock price declines of at least –18%. In our sample, we estimate that insiders at these companies have traded to avoid losses of over $9 billion. Collectively, we interpret our results as suggesting that corporate insiders associated with Chinese and Russian companies listed on US exchanges trade in a highly opportunistic and abusive manner; and that the SEC has unwittingly enabled such trading by exempting these insiders from Form 4 reporting requirements––preventing the market from scrutinizing and disciplining their trading behavior.

Keywords: insider trading, Form 144, extradition, enforcement, public scrutiny, disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Jr., Robert J. and Levy, Bradford and Taylor, Daniel, Holding Foreign Insiders Accountable (April 1, 2022). NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 22-16, Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4072797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4072797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
S Arif , J Kepler , J Schroeder , D Taylor
Audit process, private information, and insider trading
Review of Accounting Studies. Forthcoming Posted: 2021
M Barth , T Dyer , W Landsman , D Taylor
Comment on the SEC's Proposed Reporting Threshold for Institutional Investment Managers Posted: 2020-07-06
G Becker
Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
T Blackburne , J Kepler , P Quinn , D Taylor
Undisclosed SEC investigations
Management Science , volume 6 , p. 3403 - 3418 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,781
RANK
41,896
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies