Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Do Firms Receiving Integrated Audits Seek to Strategically Obfuscate Material Weakness Opinions?

59 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2022 Last revised: 19 Jul 2023

Keval Amin

Stony Brook University

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Justin Short

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Date Written: September 12, 2024

Abstract

Because material weakness opinions (MWOs) can have negative consequences, managers have incentives to strategically influence how the auditor reports an existing MWO in the audit report. The lack of guidance regarding whether auditors should issue combined versus separate reports for integrated audits of internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) and financial statements suggests that these decisions are perceived as trivial. We find that auditors are significantly more likely to change from issuing combined to separate reports when clients receive new material weakness opinions (MWOs). Cross-sectional tests suggest that client incentives and opportunities to influence the report format could play a role in this decision. We also find that Big 4 auditor decisions to combine audit reports in MWO years signal elevated misstatement risk, and when clients with separate reports receive new MWOs, managers place the reports farther apart in the 10-K than in the preceding (non-MWO) year. Collectively, these results suggest that the auditor’s decision about reporting format in light of a MWO can have potentially important consequences for the transparency of ICFR reporting.

Keywords: integrated audits, material weakness, audit opinion, auditor reporting, strategic disclosure

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Keval and Myers, Linda A. and Short, Justin,

Do Firms Receiving Integrated Audits Seek to Strategically Obfuscate Material Weakness Opinions?

(September 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4074860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4074860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
E Alfonso , C S A Cheng , S Pan
Income classification shifting and mispricing of core earnings
Auditing & Finance 0148558X15571738 Posted: 2015
A Amel-Zadeh , Y Zhang
The economic consequences of financial restatements: Evidence from the market for corporate control
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2015
K Amin , J D Eshleman , P Guo
Investor sentiment, misstatements, and auditor behavior
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 483 - 517 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,358
RANK
254,445
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies