Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case of Undetected Fraud: Can Audit Firm Policies or Highlighting the Fraud Examiner’s Role Reduce Juror Assessments of Auditor Negligence?

Journal of Forensic Accounting Research, 2021, Volume 6 (1): 389-405.

Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Christine Gimbar

DePaul University

Tammie Rech Schaefer

University of Missouri at Kansas City

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 5, 2022

Abstract

This study explores two potential safeguards against liability when auditors exercise professional skepticism, but do not detect a fraud: (1) a firm policy requiring a specific level of professional skepticism in high-risk audit areas and (2) providing jurors with key differences between the role of a fraud examiner and the role of an auditor as a reference point for judging the auditor’s performance. We find that describing a specific firm policy to jurors does not significantly decrease negligence findings for auditors who do not detect a fraud. However, providing the role of a fraud examiner as a reference point (e.g., scope of work, testing approaches) does significantly decrease negligence findings. Encouragingly, we also find some evidence that jurors are apt to decrease negligence findings when auditors exercise higher skepticism, but ultimately do not detect a fraud.

Keywords: audit, fraud, juror; litigation, professional skepticism

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Gimbar, Christine and Schaefer, Tammie Rech, The Case of Undetected Fraud: Can Audit Firm Policies or Highlighting the Fraud Examiner’s Role Reduce Juror Assessments of Auditor Negligence? (April 5, 2022). Journal of Forensic Accounting Research, 2021, Volume 6 (1): 389-405. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4076175
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
336
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies