Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When deviants talk: The role of Dark Triad traits and moral reasoning on whistleblowing in a firm.

Posted: 8 Apr 2022

Sebastian Oelrich

Aarhus University

Anne Chwolka

Otto-von_Guericke University of Magdeburg

Date Written: March 31, 2022

Abstract

Whistleblowing is an effective means to uncover fraud and other misconduct in organizations. However, it is puzzling why some employees come forward despite numerous disadvantages, severe retaliation, and negative social perceptions of the whistleblower within and outside the firm. Understanding whistleblowing as an act of deviance, motivated on different grounds, can enrich explanations for whistleblowing in such dilemmas. Drawing on psychology literature, we look at the moderating effect of the Dark Triad, i.e., Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy, as well as moral reasoning on the factors behind the whistleblowing process. We conducted a survey among 375 economics and business majors and found that both forms of deviance influence the decision process so that internal whistleblowing becomes more likely. Dark Triad personalities are less influenced by adverse subjective norms and their attitude about the consequences of whistleblowing. The negative impact of perceived retaliation on whistleblowing intention is lessened by high moral reasoning. Both types of deviations from the norm may foster whistleblowing, making it ex-post difficult to distinguish different types of whistleblowers. Importantly, we argue that specific policies, such as protection, may only serve one kind of whistleblower, disregarding the important influence of subjective norms, which may foster a more desirable type of whistleblower. Our research shows that deviant personality characteristics can counteract insufficient protection or negative cultural views on whistleblowing. Given their prominence in accounting professions, these findings have direct practical implications for whistleblowing systems, corporate governance policies, and policymakers. Moreover, we contribute to an emerging stream of research that moves away from a purely pro-social view and toward a more comprehensive understanding of whistleblowing by introducing a holistic concept of whistleblowing as deviance.

Keywords: whistleblowing, Dark Triad (Machiavellianism, narcissism, psychopathy), moral reasoning, fraud, corporate governance, survey

Suggested Citation:

Oelrich, Sebastian and Chwolka, Anne, When deviants talk: The role of Dark Triad traits and moral reasoning on whistleblowing in a firm. (March 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4078033
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
730
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies