Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unraveling Financial Fraud: The Role of the Board of Directors and External Advisors in Conducting Independent Internal Investigations

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 28 Apr 2022

Rebecca Files

Baylor University

Michelle Liu‐Watts

CUNY Hunter College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 10, 2022

Abstract

Although firms are encouraged by the SEC and Department of Justice to conduct internal investigations following financial misconduct, prior research finds few benefits for investigating firms. This study examines a novel aspect of internal investigations—namely, whether the investigation is conducted by independent versus nonindependent teams—and explores the impact of these teams on investigation outcomes. Consistent with our predictions, we find that firms whose internal investigations are led by independent teams are more likely to retain external advisors, have a higher likelihood of CEO turnover, and face a lower likelihood of an SEC enforcement action than do firms whose investigations are led by nonindependent teams. Our findings demonstrate that the SEC grants enforcement leniency to firms that conduct an internal investigation, but this finding only holds when the investigation leader is considered independent. These results also suggest that appointing independent groups to lead internal investigations protects the firm, at the expense of the CEO, following accounting fraud. Our paper has important implications for researchers studying accounting irregularities as we are the first to show that independent board members and external advisors play a direct role in the resolution of financial misconduct through their job on the internal investigation team.

Keywords: internal investigation, audit committee, executive turnover, accounting irregularities, SEC enforcement, cooperation

Suggested Citation:

Files, Rebecca and Liu‐Watts, Michelle, Unraveling Financial Fraud: The Role of the Board of Directors and External Advisors in Conducting Independent Internal Investigations (April 10, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4087782
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
416
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies