Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rank-and-File Accounting Employee Compensation and Financial Reporting Quality

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

81 Pages Posted: 10 May 2022 Last revised: 8 Jan 2024

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Shawn X. Shi

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Date Written: January 2, 2024

Abstract

We use a proprietary database with detailed, employee-specific compensation contract information for rank-and-file corporate accountants who are directly involved in the financial reporting process to assess their influence on their firms’ financial reporting quality. Theory predicts that paying above-market wages can both attract employees with more human capital and subsequently encourage better performance. Consistent with audit committees structuring accountants’ compensation so as to mitigate financial misreporting that might otherwise occur, we find that firms with relatively well-paid accountants tend to issue higher-quality financial reports. Moreover, this relationship is more pronounced when firms’ senior executives have stronger contractual incentives to misreport and when the audit committee is more independent from management.

Keywords: Managerial incentives for the accounting function, financial misreporting, accounting quality, human capital

JEL Classification: G34, J3, M12

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Kepler, John and Larcker, David F. and Shi, Shawn, Rank-and-File Accounting Employee Compensation and Financial Reporting Quality (January 2, 2024). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper , Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4100807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4100807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
C Alexander , S Bauguess , G Bernile , Y Lee , Marietta-Westberg , J
Economic effects of SOX Section 404 compliance: A corporate insider perspective
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2013
K Allee , T Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: An Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements by Privately Held Small Businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
W Allen , R Kraakman
Commentaries and cases on the law of business organizations , volume 5 Posted: 2016
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J Cox , Q Dupont , J Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
943
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,465
RANK
56,721
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies