Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating level of double counting in consolidation of investees of Malawian Reporting Entities

Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1

23 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2023

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

Consolidated financial statements are complex in nature both from the preparers’ and users’ perspective. The consolidated financial statements sometimes suffer from double counting which simply means that income and equity transactions might be wrongly recorded more than once. The negative impact of double counting is that it diminishes the integrity of the financial statements. This study evaluated possible incidences of double counting in Malawian consolidated financial statements from the publicly accountable entities vis-à-vis financial institutions and listed companies as these are not exempted from producing groups accounts as outlined by IFRS 10. The results of this study indicate that seven out of eight Malawian banks produce consolidated financial statements but these are inconsequential in view of immaterial subsidiaries. The study recommends exemptions on case by case basis. The other results indicate material double counting incidences leading to material misstatement of financial statements. External auditors must do better to address this problem.

Keywords: Double; Counting; Consolidation; Malawi

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, G20, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Investigating level of double counting in consolidation of investees of Malawian Reporting Entities (April 1, 2022). Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4106562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
The carbon we are not accounting: Accounting for Scope 3 Carbon Emissions Posted: 2011
Robert J Barro
Double of counting investment
Posted: 2019
Jennifer Blouin , Leslie Robinson
Double counting accounting: How much profit of multinational enterprises is really in tax havens? Posted: 2020
Michael E Bradbury , Shirley C Calderwood
Equity Accounting for Reciprocal Stockholdings
The Accounting Review , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 330 - 347 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
502
RANK
819,493
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies