Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Polytope Fraud Theory

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 22-41

64 Pages Posted: 24 May 2022

Dongshuai Zhao

ETH Zürich - Department of Management, Technology, and Economics (D-MTEC)

Zhongli Wang

Bielefeld University; Catholic University of Milan

Florian Schweizer-Gamborino

PwC Switzerland

Didier Sornette

Risks-X, Southern University of Science and Technology (SUSTech); Swiss Finance Institute

Date Written: May 20, 2022

Abstract

Polytope Fraud Theory (PFT) extends the existing triangle and diamond theories of accounting fraud with ten abnormal financial practice alarms that a fraudulent firm might trigger. These warning signals are identified through evaluation of the shorting behavior of sophisticated activist short sellers, which are used to train several supervised machine-learning methods in detecting financial statement fraud using published accounting data. Our contributions include a systematic manual collection and labeling of companies that are shorted by professional activist short sellers. We also combine well-known asset pricing factors with accounting red flags in financial features selections. Using 80 percent of the data for training and the remaining 20 percent for out-of-sample test and performance assessment, we find that the best method is XGBoost, with a Recall of 79 percent and F1-score of 85 percent. Other methods have only slightly lower performance, demonstrating the robustness of our results. This shows that the sophisticated activist short sellers, from whom the algorithms are learning, have excellent accounting insights, tremendous forensic analytical knowledge, and sharp business acumen. Our feature importance analysis indicates that potential short-selling targets share many similar financial characteristics, such as bankruptcy or financial distress risk, clustering in some industries, inconsistency of profitability, high accrual, and unreasonable business operations. Our results imply the possible automation of advanced financial statement analysis, which can both improve auditing processes and effectively enhance investment performance. Finally, we propose the Unified Investor Protection Framework, summarizing and categorizing investor-protection related theories from the macro-level to the micro-level.

Keywords: fraud risk assessment, financial fraud, fraud detection, machine learning

JEL Classification: C45, C53, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Dongshuai and Wang, Zhongli and Schweizer-Gamborino, Florian and Sornette, Didier, Polytope Fraud Theory (May 20, 2022). Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 22-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4115679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4115679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
164 References
Enron's conference call, Richard Grubman of Highfield Capital asked Jeffery Skilling, the CEO of Enron, to explain what the price-risk-management asset in the balance sheet is, Skilling did not provide any detailed information, and after the conversation, Skilling complained about Grubman in foul language with an unmuted Microphone. 53 For more information Posted: 2002-04
L F Ackert , G Athanassakos
The relationship between short interest and stock returns in the Canadian market
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 29 , issue 7 , p. 1729 - 1749 Posted: 2005
M Albashrawi
Detecting financial fraud using data mining techniques: A decade review from 2004 to
Journal of Data Science , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 553 - 570 Posted: 2015
W S Albrecht , C O Albrecht
Fraud Examination & Prevention Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,771
RANK
42,529
164 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies