Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Fraud and Investor Awareness

Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, Volume 219, March 2024, Pages 104-123

41 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022 Last revised: 11 Jul 2025

Zhengqing Gui

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Risk Management Institute

Yangguang Huang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Economics

Xiaojian Zhao

Monash University - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 01, 2024

Abstract

We study a retail financial market with naive investors who are unaware of possible financial fraud. In our model, firms strategically choose whether to offer normal or fraudulent products to possibly unaware investors. Having new firms in the market makes offering normal products less profitable and thus discourages firms from behaving honestly. In a leader-follower environment, an honest firm may sell a normal product to sophisticated investors, while a dishonest firm targets only naive investors. By disclosing information about financial fraud, the honest firm can steal market share from the dishonest firm, but doing so may induce the dishonest firm to deviate and compete for the normal-product market, which limits the honest firm’s incentive to disclose information. Policy instruments, such as increasing legal punishment, subsidizing normal products, and lowering the interest rate ceiling, may also trigger the honest firm to strategically shroud information. As a consequence, these policies cannot ensure an improvement in investor surplus.

Keywords: financial fraud, investor naivety, unawareness, shrouding

Suggested Citation:

Gui, Zhengqing and Huang, Yangguang and Zhao, Xiaojian, Financial Fraud and Investor Awareness (March 01, 2024). Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, Volume 219, March 2024, Pages 104-123, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4129680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
S Agarwal , C Song , V W Yao
Banking Competition and Shrouded Attributes: Evidence from the US Mortgage Market Posted: 2017
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management Turnover and Governance Changes Following the Revelation of Fraud
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
F Allen , D Gale
From Cash-in-the-Market Pricing to Financial Fragility
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 3 , p. 535 - 546 Posted: 2005
M Armstrong , Y Chen
Inattentive Consumers and Product Quality
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 7 , p. 411 - 422 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
653,768
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies