Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Internal Audit on Fraud Detection in the Nigerian Public Sector

Posted: 16 Nov 2022

Akaninyene Umoh

Independent

Date Written: August 7, 2019

Abstract

This research work was designed to assess the effect of internal audit function on fraud detection in the Nigerian public sector. Fraud triangle theory which tries to explain reasons why people commit fraud guided this work, survey research design and Purposive sampling technique was adopted as it aligns with the subject matter of the study. The objectives of the study were to examine the effect of internal checks, stock audit, cash audit and transaction audit functions on fraud detection in the Area Councils in Abuja. To achieve these objectives, data was collected from primary source with the help of a Likert scale questionnaire. 220 questionnaires were distributed and 172 successfully filled and returned. Data was analyzed using descriptive statistics and regression model. Findings revealed that Internal checks, stock and cash audit functions have a positive and significant effect on fraud detection, while transaction audit have a positive but statistically insignificant effect on fraud detection.

Keywords: Internal audit, internal checks, stock audit, cash audit, transaction audit, fraud detection, Nigerian public sector

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Umoh, Akaninyene, Effect of Internal Audit on Fraud Detection in the Nigerian Public Sector (August 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4154360
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
488
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies