Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT Fraud in Europe - a Case Study

34 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2022

Simona Gabriela Masca

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Andra Iulia Pop

Babes-Bolyai University

Date Written: June 17, 2022

Abstract

This study approaches the subject of tax fraud and VAT Gap in the European Union. How VAT is applied in intra-community transactions and which are the main modalities of initiating VAT fraud, are discussed in order to assess the reforms for combating tax fraud. Six European countries are analyzed in a comparative way to highlight the differences and trends related to VAT Gap. Special attention is devoted to investigate, both theoretically and empirically, the potentials factors that model the VAT Gap. Official annual data are collected from various sources over the 2011-2019 period. Our findings suggest that tax fraud losses are still at high level and new and more profound reforms are needed to oppose fraud.

Keywords: VAT, VAT Gap, EU, tax fraud

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Masca, Simona Gabriela and Pop, Andra Iulia, VAT Fraud in Europe - a Case Study (June 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4154653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4154653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Dacă < 1, atunci y 1 < y 0 și avem un proces de scădere a fenomenului analizat
Valorea GAP-ului de TVA , volume 8
Sursa: Proiecție proprie
I C Cuceu , V L Văidean , S G Mașca
Some Insights of Value-Added Tax gap Posted: 2017
M Lamensch , E Și Ceci
VAT Fraud, Economic impact, challenges and policy issues, Policy Departament for Economic, Scientific and Quality of Life Policies p , p. 15 - 27 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,346
RANK
215,250
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies