Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Financial Reporting in China: Evidence From Corporate Renaming

Zhang, Y., Zhang, Y., & Yao, T. (2022). Fraudulent financial reporting in China: Evidence from corporate renaming. Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, 18(1), 100283.

Posted: 19 Jul 2022

Yefeng Zhang

Independent

Yuyu Zhang

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Daifei (Troy) Yao

Queensland University of Technology - QUT Business School

Date Written: October 25, 2021

Abstract

Using a sample of listed Chinese companies during 2010–2019, we examine whether corporate renaming is associated with fraudulent financial reporting. We find that companies that change their corporate names without making underlying changes to business fundamentals are more likely to commit financial reporting fraud. The positive association between corporate renaming and financial reporting fraud is more pronounced for nonstate- owned enterprises and companies with a lower ownership concentration. There is further evidence that corporate renaming is more likely to be associated with disclosure-related fraud (e.g., failure to disclose or delayed disclosure) and that the likelihood of fraudulent behavior increases with the frequency of corporate renaming. Overall, the findings of this study provide evidence of a new red flag for regulators and investors investigating financial fraud. This study is timely and has policy implications for market regulators hoping to establish and improve emerging capital markets in which the information environment is generally considered weak and opaque.

Keywords: Financial reporting fraud Corporate renaming, Corporate governance, China

JEL Classification: G34, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Yefeng and Zhang, Yuyu and Yao, Daifei (Troy), Fraudulent Financial Reporting in China: Evidence From Corporate Renaming (October 25, 2021). Zhang, Y., Zhang, Y., & Yao, T. (2022). Fraudulent financial reporting in China: Evidence from corporate renaming. Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, 18(1), 100283., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4155838
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
478
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies