Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manchester Offshored: A Public Interest Report on the Manchester Life Partnership Between Manchester City Council and The Abu Dhabi United Group

68 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2022

Richard Goulding

University of Sheffield

Adam Leaver

University of Sheffield

Jonathan Silver

University of Sheffield

Date Written: July 20, 2022

Abstract

Over the last 25 to 30 years Manchester city centre has experienced a property development boom unlike that of any major UK city outside of London. This development has – in no small measure – been financed by the inflow of overseas capital and in recent years investment from Abu Dhabi has been a major source of financing for Manchester’s sports and real estate assets. This has raised concerns about the ongoing relationship between Manchester City Council and the Abu Dhabi regime, given the latter’s human rights reputation. That relationship has deepened in recent years as the council has entered into joint ventures with Abu Dhabi investors in a number of property development projects. This report examines the structure and economics of the Manchester Life development - one such joint venture between Manchester City Council and entities ultimately owned by the Abu Dhabi United Group. Our report examines how the Manchester Life project is organised legally, how it draws on various public resources (land, planning, expertise and loans) and where the money goes from rental and sales income. In so doing, it considers questions of transparency, accountability and ethical compromise. It also considers the wider implications of our analysis for state-led urban redevelopment and alternative models of regeneration.

Suggested Citation:

Goulding, Richard and Leaver, Adam and Silver, Jonathan, Manchester Offshored: A Public Interest Report on the Manchester Life Partnership Between Manchester City Council and The Abu Dhabi United Group (July 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4168229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4168229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Chairman interview appeared on City TV 19 Posted: 2014-05-07
A England , S Kerr
The Abu Dhabi royal at the nexus of UAE business and national security
Financial Times Posted: 2021
D Conn
How City became a trophy brand for greater glory of Abu Dhabi. The Guardian Posted: 2008
R Anderson
Posted: 2014
Load more
5 Citations
Rowland Atkinson , Martha Mingay
Arrive and retreat: London’s ultra-prime apartment blocks as dark urban renaissance
City , volume 28 , issue 3-4 , p. 495 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Victoria Habermehl , Colin McFarlane
Density as a politics of value: Regulation, speculation, and popular urbanism
Progress in Human Geography , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 664 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Stephen Crossley , Adam Woolf
‘Fog on the tyne’? The ‘common-sense’ focus on ‘sportswashing’ and the 2021 takeover of Newcastle United
International Journal of Sport Policy and Politics , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 307 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Simon Marvin , Colin McFarlane , Prince Guma , Michael Hodson , Andrew Lockhart , Pauline McGuirk , Andrew McMeekin , Catalina Ortiz , AbdouMaliq Simone , Alan Wiig
Post‐pandemic cities: An urban lexicon of accelerations/decelerations
Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 452 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,509
RANK
293,623
5 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies