Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legitimation of Accounting Fraud: A Micro-Discursive Analysis of Wirecard's CEO

33 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2022

Peter Daly

EDHEC Business School

Philippe Touron

Université Paris Panthéon-Sorbonne

Abstract

This study examines how Dr Markus Braun, CEO of Wirecard, constructed legitimation when faced with allegations from financial news reporters. It contributes to research into the legitimation strategies deployed by CEOs to construct a certain truth, justify corporate values and reassure stakeholders on business practices and draws on and extends Van Leeuwen's (2007) legitimation framework. Seven conference talks and nine financial news reports with Markus Braun were closely analyzed to reveal the discursive strategies employed to legitimize accounting fraud when facing allegations from the Financial Times. The findings reveal a focus on unverifiable prefactual future visioning that is difficult to contradict as it may or may not happen in the future; a de-agentization strategy from personal authorization to impersonal or expert authorization when facing allegations and thorny issues related to fraud; an altruistic and often abstract moralization; and organizational storytelling with emotional appeals and us/them dichotomies to position Wirecard as the hero. The findings advance understanding on how Braun discursively constructed and maintained corporate legitimacy during the Wirecard scandal and provide further insights into corporate legitimation by dishonest CEOs.

Keywords: Accounting Fraud, legitimation strategies, Wirecard, Fintech scandal

Suggested Citation:

Daly, Peter and Touron, Philippe, Legitimation of Accounting Fraud: A Micro-Discursive Analysis of Wirecard's CEO. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4169005 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4169005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
E Abrahamson , P Baumard
What lies behind organizational façades and how organizational façades lie: An untold story of organizational decision making , p. 437 - 438 Posted: 2008
J Amernic , R Craig
Three tenors in perfect harmony: 'Close readings' of the joint letter by the heads of aluminium giants Alcan, Pechiney, and Alusuisse announcing their megamerger plan
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 12 , p. 763 - 795 Posted: 2001
J Amernic , R Craig
CEO-speak: The language of corporate leadership Posted: 2006
J Amernic , R Craig
Understanding accounting through conceptual metaphor: Accounting is an instrument?
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 20 , p. 875 - 883 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,452
RANK
158,915
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies