Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Mafia Police Actions, Criminal Firms, and Peer Firm Tax Avoidance

Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Research

51 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2022

Justin Chircop

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Michele Fabrizi

University of Padua

Patrizia Malaspina

University of Padua

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: May 3, 2022

Abstract

Mafia firms introduce distortions in the markets in which they operate, increasing the cost of doing business for peer firms. We investigate whether peers respond by increasing their tax avoidance and thus increasing funds available to compete with the Mafia firms. Using a sample of Italian anti-Mafia police actions that resulted in the removal of Mafia firms and a difference-in-differences approach, we find that peers reduce their tax avoidance following these actions. We further show that, following anti-Mafia police actions, peer firms improve their performance and increase capital investment while enjoying a reduction in the cost of raw materials. Overall, our results highlight the micro-level channels through which Mafia can affect firm outcomes and local economies.

Keywords: Tax avoidance; Criminal firms; Organized Crime; Peer firms; anti-Mafia Actions

JEL Classification: G38, M40, M41, K40, K42, L20

Suggested Citation:

Chircop, Justin and Fabrizi, Michele and Malaspina, Patrizia and Parbonetti, Antonio, Anti-Mafia Police Actions, Criminal Firms, and Peer Firm Tax Avoidance (May 3, 2022). Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4175384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4175384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
F Allum , R Siebert
Organised Crime and the Challenge to Democracy Posted: 2003
J D Angrist
The Perils of Peer Effects
Labour Economics , volume 30 , p. 98 - 108 Posted: 2014
P Arlacchi
La Mafia Imprenditrice: L'Etica Mafiosa e lo Spirito del Capitalismo Posted: 1983
A C Baker , D F Larcker , Wang , C C Y
How Much Should we Trust Staggered Difference-in-Differences Estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
921
RANK
568,026
7 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies