Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Comparability and Accounting Fraud

Blanco, B., Dhole, S., and Gul, F. A. 2022. Financial Statement Comparability and Accounting Fraud, Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12652

93 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2022 Last revised: 22 Sep 2022

Belen Blanco

The University of Adelaide

Sandip Dhole

Monash University

Ferdinand A Gul

Deakin University

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

We examine the association between financial statement comparability and the likelihood of accounting fraud. Prior research documents a negative association between the quality of a firm’s reporting environment and accounting fraud. We build on this literature and show that poor financial statement comparability is associated with a greater likelihood of accounting fraud. We also find that accounting comparability declines over time as the year of fraud detection approaches that the association between comparability and fraud becomes more negative over this time. We also find that financial statement comparability improves after fraud detection, consistent with the notion that managers improve their financial reporting quality after fraud.

Keywords: Accounting Fraud, Financial Statement Comparability, Reputation Repair

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Blanco, Belen and Dhole, Sandip and Gul, Ferdinand A, Financial Statement Comparability and Accounting Fraud (September 1, 2022). Blanco, B., Dhole, S., and Gul, F. A. 2022. Financial Statement Comparability and Accounting Fraud, Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12652, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
560
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,420
RANK
112,757
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies