Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
I Report if They Report: The Role of Media in Whistleblowing Intentions on Fraud and Corruption

Oelrich, Sebastian (2022). I report if they report: The role of media in whistleblowing intentions on fraud and corruption. Research in the Sociology of Organizations, 85, 101-120. https://doi.org/10.1108/S0733-558X20230000085006

Posted: 20 Oct 2022 Last revised: 11 Oct 2023

Sebastian Oelrich

Aarhus University

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

Researchers and practitioners recognize whistleblowers and the media as disparate control agents to uncover fraud and corruption in and by organizations. However, whistleblowing is mainly studied in relation to individual and organizational antecedents. Social norms and in particular the media as a form of social norm influence or norm conveyer on whistleblowing are largely unexplored. In this paper, I study the influence of perceived critical media coverage (i.e., whether media are perceived as criticizing fraud and corruption) on whistleblowing intentions on fraud and corruption. I draw on norm activation theory to develop a moderation-mediation model of whistleblowing to highlight how the media can convey social norms influencing whistleblowing intentions. Using a cross-national survey of employees from China, Germany, and Russia (n=1159), I hypothesize and find that media directly influence employee attitudes towards corruption as well as the likelihood to whistle blow. Critical media coverage also reduces the influence of descriptive norms by co-worker misconduct on attitude and the negative influence of fear of retaliation on whistleblowing intentions. This paper is the first to highlight the importance of critical mass media on whistleblowing decisions. My findings suggest that the media influence potential whistleblowers in a way that can be described along the lines of “I report if they report.”

Keywords: whistleblowing, media, social norm, corruption, fraud, survey

Suggested Citation:

Oelrich, Sebastian, I Report if They Report: The Role of Media in Whistleblowing Intentions on Fraud and Corruption (August 1, 2022). Oelrich, Sebastian (2022). I report if they report: The role of media in whistleblowing intentions on fraud and corruption. Research in the Sociology of Organizations, 85, 101-120. https://doi.org/10.1108/S0733-558X20230000085006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4238714
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
535
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies