Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Debtor's Digital Autopsy or Where's the Money!

NABTalk, Journal of the National Association of Bankruptcy Trustees, Vol. 19, No. 2, Summer 2003

14 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2003

Jack Seward

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper explores the practical aspects of digital forensics in bankruptcy matters. Given the use of computers and digital devices in business today, a trustee who is investigating a debtor and attempting to recover assets for the creditors *must* consider conducting a digital forensic accounting investigation.

Digital financial information ("e-data"), can be found practically everywhere you look in business today, and that is certainly true in bankruptcy and collections.

Robert C. Furr, Esq. Editor for the National Association of Bankruptcy Trustees indicated in his summer 2003 column of NABTalk® "There are no filing cabinets full of records that are easy to digest. Rather, there is a mass of computers, hard drives, software, CD ROMS, etc., from which we have to try to figure out what happened to this debtor." A trustee has the duty to investigate the financial affairs of the Debtor and to ensure that books and records are properly turned over to the trustee. Most trustees may not have the technical expertise to properly investigate in the modern financial world of computer technology.

Lear how it is almost impossible for unscrupulous Debtors or their officers to escape from the trail of e-data left behind in today's digitized business environment. Indeed this is the digital age, and in the Bankruptcy arena that means the trustee has powerful resources available to sift through the electronic sand pit of the unscrupulous Debtor.

Obtain digital "basic training" for the 341 Meeting and learn why time is not on the Trustee's side. The debtor's *e-data* can help you find out more about its business and assets, than the debtor ever intended for you to know.

Attorneys and other professionals working for the benefit of creditors, trustees, committees, examiners, employees, shareholders, insiders, co-defendants, and other parties in interest in a bankruptcy case, will want to become familiar with this process and the necessity for using digital forensic accounting technology in bankruptcy cases.

A list of best practices is provided for the acquisition of forensic evidence as developed by the author that covers such topics as chain of evidence, acquisition of the debtor's e-data, preliminary measures for processing e-data, and the preservation e-data.

In the digital age, without the proper knowledge, skills, and a full array of digital forensic sleuthing tools on your side, you are at a disadvantage against those who will use the best of this technology.

Jack Seward is a consultant and digital forensic accounting technologist and has an association with a New York area forensic accounting firm. For many years, he has specialized in litigation support, bankruptcy, insolvency and the discovery, recovery and analysis of digital forensic accounting information for attorneys, corporations, creditors, trustees, stockholders and other interested parties. He can be contacted at JackSeward@msn.com or at his New York Office 917-450-9328 or Fax 212-656-1486.

JEL Classification: G33, M41, M43, M49

Suggested Citation:

Seward, Jack, The Debtor's Digital Autopsy or Where's the Money!. NABTalk, Journal of the National Association of Bankruptcy Trustees, Vol. 19, No. 2, Summer 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=425163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.425163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Bestcrypt , Microsoft Pc-Encrypt , Office , Word , Pocket Access , Excel , Dbase , Foxbase , X P Windows
Windows NT, Outlook, Outlook Express, Microsoft Exchange Server, WinZip, PKZip, ZIP, General Zippers, VBA Visual Basic
Including but not limited to decryption software for Encrypt Magic Folders, Source Safe Posted: 2000
Digital Discovery Starts to Work Preliminary measures for processing the Debtor's e-data: • Be prepared for confronting computer viruses and worms early in the case
National Law Journal Posted: 2002-11-04
Maintain adequate e-forensic software for locating and breaking encrypted information
Examine all media sources for possible steganography and/or encrypted files, folders and drives
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,056
RANK
190,939
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies