Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Can Capital Market Participants Detect Financial Statement Fraud?

Volume in Honor of Professor Anastasios Tsamis (Forthcoming)

31 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022

Efthimios Demirakos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: August 23, 2022

Abstract

The primary purpose of the current study is to examine the effectiveness of three popular forensic accounting tools to detect financial statement fraud at a real US-listed firm, whose accounting practices were investigated by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In this paper, I implement the Dechow et al. (2011) F-Score, Beneish et al. (2013) M-Score, and Lundholm and Sloan (2017) accruals-based approach and show how these three analytical procedures can help investors, financial analysts, and auditors to assess the quality and sustainability of a firm’s profitability. The findings of this study should be of interest to several constituents, including: i) capital market participants, who may want to complement their portfolio of financial ratios with rigorous and robust approaches to detect financial shenanigans; ii) accounting educators, who may find interesting the case study for their auditing and fraud examination courses; and iii) accounting researchers, who may choose to investigate the effectiveness of these quantitative techniques to timely detect accounting fraud perpetrated by firms that were targeted by the SEC and/or activist short-sellers.

Keywords: Financial Statement Fraud, F-Score, M-Score, Accruals, SEC AAER.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42.

Suggested Citation:

Demirakos, Efthimios, How Can Capital Market Participants Detect Financial Statement Fraud? (August 23, 2022). Volume in Honor of Professor Anastasios Tsamis (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4283751 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4283751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
RANK
248,977
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies