Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manipulating Financial Statements, a Greek Case Study

8 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2022

Michail Bekiris

Hellenic Mediterranean University

Date Written: November 27, 2022

Abstract

The goal of study is to identify the phenomenon of the manipulation of financial statements in the modern business world and in particular the study of the case of fraud by Folli-Follie, which led to bankruptcy in 2019 in Greece. The manipulation of financial statements and fraud in general in financial reporting is a phenomenon that has been intensifying in recent years. In this regard, professionals in the field of auditing and accounting have developed a variety of tools to be able to determine whether there is manipulation of the financial report. In the present paper and for the purposes it performs, an extensive literary review of the existing literature regarding the phenomenon of manipulation of financial statements is made. Next, the case of fraud is studied by the company Folli-Follie with the competitor company Pandora with the Benish - Score method (1999), for the control of financial statement manipulation for the years 2009 - 2018. At the same time, the Altman Z-Score index (2000) is also studied to determine the degree of viability, which in combination with statistical analysis leads to the conclusion that manipulation can be predicted with these score tools in dealing with a possible bankruptcy of a company. With this study the importance of research into the manipulation of financial statements in companies has been statistically approved. Also, this paper demonstrates that manipulation temporarily partially contributes to a firm's viability, but over time the firm faces the possibility of bankruptcy.

Keywords: Falsification, Financial Statements, Fraud, Manipulation, Folli-Follie

JEL Classification: G17, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bekiris, Michail, Manipulating Financial Statements, a Greek Case Study (November 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4287232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4287232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
398
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,957
RANK
169,614
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies