Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Finance and Corporate Financial Fraud

18 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2022

guanglin sun

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

ting li

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

yongfang ai

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Qinghai Li

Nanjing University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

This paper examines the impact and mechanism of digital finance on financial fraud by constructing a theoretical framework of digital finance affecting corporate financial fraud. We use panel data of Chinese A-share listed companies from 2011 to 2018. The results that digital finance can significantly inhibit corporate financial fraud and improve the ability of financial institutions to identify financial statements. Thus, the incentive and opportunity for corporations to engage in financial fraud is directly reduced. The internal mechanism shows that digital finance can restrain corporate financial fraud by alleviating the financing constraints faced by enterprises, as well as reducing corporate financial fraud by reducing corporate leverage. These effects will reduce debt pressure, thus easing the motivation of corporate financial fraud. The results of heterogeneity analysis that digital finance has a significant inhibitory effect on financial fraud of enterprises with different scales and different property rights.

Keywords: Digital finance, Digital technology, Financial fraud, Financing constraints, Financial leverage

Suggested Citation:

sun, guanglin and li, ting and ai, yongfang and Li, Qinghai, Digital Finance and Corporate Financial Fraud. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4289181 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4289181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
278,438
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies