Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reading between the Lines: a Machine Learning Framework to Identify and Prioritize Workplace Environmental and Behavioral Risk Factors

Posted: 12 Jan 2023

Ivy Munoko

University of Florida

Soohyun Cho

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Helen L. Brown-Liburd

Rutgers University, Newark - Rutgers Business School - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: January 12, 2023

Abstract

Billions of dollars are lost annually due to inappropriate activities within companies, such as the collusion of multiple employees to misappropriate corporate assets or misrepresent the financial position of the company. We develop a machine learning and natural language processing framework for analyzing corporate digital communication to detect behaviors that signal a higher risk of collusion within an organization. We use an expert panel to validate the framework and find those forensic experts who are also credentialed professionals with a high degree of technical accounting skills express risk assessments consistent with our machine learning framework. The managerial implication of this study is that management and those charged with corporate governance can utilize this machine learning framework to continuously monitor digital communications resulting in a proactive as opposed to a reactive approach to detect collusion risk.

Keywords: machine learning, text analytics, natural language processing, audit, risk assessment, artificial intelligence, social network analysis

JEL Classification: M15, M42

Suggested Citation:

Munoko, Ivy and Cho, Soohyun and Brown-Liburd, Helen L., Reading between the Lines: a Machine Learning Framework to Identify and Prioritize Workplace Environmental and Behavioral Risk Factors (January 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4323174
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
489
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies