Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Evasion as a Factor Influencing 'Creative Accounting Practice' Among Companies in Kenya

Journal of Business Studies Quarterly; Antioch Vol. 4, Iss. 2, (Dec 2012): 77-84.

Posted: 17 Jan 2023

Charles Guandaru Kamau

Technical University of Mombasa

Agnes Ndida Mutiso

Kirinyaga University

Dorothy Mbithe Ngui

Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology

Date Written: December 1, 2012

Abstract

Creative accounting is carried out with an objective of making the company appear to be financially stronger or weaker depending on the management's aspirations. This practice is considered professionally unethical in Kenya even though in some countries it's permitted by law. This study singled out Tax avoidance and evasion as one of the major factors influencing creative accounting practice in Kenya. The researcher randomly collected and analyzed data from thirty six accountants working for various companies in Kenya. The results of the study established that tax avoidance and evasion is indeed one of the major factors contributing to practice of creative accounting among companies in private sector in Kenya.

Keywords: Creative Accounting, Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H26

Suggested Citation:

Kamau, Charles Guandaru and Mutiso, Agnes Ndida and Ngui, Dorothy Mbithe, Tax Avoidance and Evasion as a Factor Influencing 'Creative Accounting Practice' Among Companies in Kenya (December 1, 2012). Journal of Business Studies Quarterly; Antioch Vol. 4, Iss. 2, (Dec 2012): 77-84., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4324318
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies