Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Cash Is not King: An Examination of the Relative Effectiveness of Tangible vs. Cash Incentives on Whistleblower Reporting

Accounting Horizons (2022), https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-2020-189

30 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2023

Rosemond Desir

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Stephen Perreault

Providence College

James Wainberg

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

We investigate the effects of incentive type (i.e., cash vs. tangible) in motivating whistleblower behavior. While prior research indicates that cash rewards are an effective means for motivating whistleblower reporting, research has yet to examine the relative effectiveness of tangible incentives (e.g., gift cards, incentive travel, and merchandise) in promoting these prosocial behaviors. Motivated by mental accounting theory, our study experimentally tests and finds that the type of reward offered (cash vs. tangible) interacts with reward size to predict whistleblower reporting behavior. Specifically, whistleblower reporting was less (more) sensitive to changes in reward size when small tangible (cash) rewards were offered. These findings suggest that tangible (i.e., non-cash) rewards can increase both the efficiency and effectiveness of whistleblower incentive programs and should be of considerable interest to managers, corporate boards, audit committees, and those charged with corporate governance.

Keywords: mental accounting, fraud, whistleblowing, incentive program

Suggested Citation:

Desir, Rosemond and Perreault, Stephen and Wainberg, James, When Cash Is not King: An Examination of the Relative Effectiveness of Tangible vs. Cash Incentives on Whistleblower Reporting ( 2022). Accounting Horizons (2022), https://doi.org/10.2308/HORIZONS-2020-189, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4345125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4345125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
RANK
564,093
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies