Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Let’s Have a Chat': Principles for the Effective Application of ChatGPT and Large Language Models in the Practice of Forensic Accounting

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, July to December 2023 issue, forthcoming.

57 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2023 Last revised: 5 Apr 2023

Daniel Street

Bucknell University

Joseph Wilck

Bucknell University

Date Written: March 18, 2023

Abstract

ChatGPT has captured the popular imagination because of its conversational voice, its wide scope of ‘knowledge’, and far-ranging abilities. In this paper, we use an innovative interview method to introduce CPAs to ChatGPT, its development, and the current state of its capabilities. We then draw upon our own expertise to discuss the evolution of large language models, suggest applications of large language models (LLMs) in the field of accounting, critically evaluate LLMs’ current strengths and weaknesses, and propose five principles to effectively and safely leverage LLMs in the accounting domain.

Keywords: ChatGPT, Large Language Models, Chatbots, AI

Suggested Citation:

Street, Daniel and Wilck, Joseph, 'Let’s Have a Chat': Principles for the Effective Application of ChatGPT and Large Language Models in the Practice of Forensic Accounting (March 18, 2023). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Accounting, July to December 2023 issue, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4351817 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4351817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
References AGI Safety Fundamentals Posted: 2022-01-30
S Altman
StrictlyVC in conversation with Sam Altman (OpenAI) [Interview]. Strictly VC Posted: 2023-01-17
ARCHIVED: 2022 Alignment Fundamentals curriculum Posted: 2022-01-30
T Brown , B Mann , N Ryder , M Subbiah , J D Kaplan , P Dhariwal , A Neelakantan , P Shyam , G Sastry , A Askell
Language models are few-shot learners
Advances in neural information processing systems , volume 33 , p. 1877 - 1901 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,614
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,085
RANK
25,972
3 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies