Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain Forensics and Crypto-Related Cybercrimes

115 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2023 Last revised: 25 May 2023

Lin William Cong

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Kimberly Grauer

Chainalysis

Daniel Rabetti

National University of Singapore (NUS); Harvard Business School

Henry Updegrave

Chainalysis

Abstract

This handbook provides an overview of various criminal activities related to cryptocurrencies, including investment scams, Ponzi schemes, rug pulls, ransomware attacks, money laundering, and darknet markets. We discuss the need for user protection and education, centralized entities and regulators' efforts to prevent scams, and the use of blockchain forensic techniques to investigate and curb cybercrimes such as ransomware attacks and money laundering. We also go beyond blockchain and access how other statistical analyses of crypto-related data emerge as a powerful tool to examine wash trading and tax evasion. Despite some success by authorities in shutting down cybercriminal activities, using cryptocurrencies and other technologies makes it challenging to identify and prosecute those involved in illicit activities, and increased collaboration between law enforcement agencies and the technology industry is needed. This handbook is an ongoing effort by the authors to provide an overall anatomy of cybercrime and potential solutions in the crypto space.

Keywords: Cryptocurrencies, Cybercrime, Blockchain Forensics, Network Security, Crypto Regulation

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G29, K29, K42, M41, O16

Suggested Citation:

Cong, Lin William and Grauer, Kimberly and Rabetti, Daniel and Updegrave, Henry, Blockchain Forensics and Crypto-Related Cybercrimes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4358561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4358561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
?abstract i d = 3135514
Grauer Goldsmith , Qian Shmalo ; Jiarun , Jiaen
These attacks have resulted in lost funds for customers and significant damage to affected cryptocurrency businesses, and in some cases, to the enrichment of nation-state actors acting on behalf of rogue regimes. Extant literature examines crypto hacks through several techniques, including graph analysis
survey (Charoenwong and Bernardi (2021)), research review (Castonguay and Stein Posted: 2020
The breach was made possible via a flaw in a smart contract, demonstrating the need for stronger blockchain security
The thieves proposed trading the stolen NEM for other cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin and Lightcoin, at a 15% discount from the going rate. The hacking event also caused substantial price fluctuations and decrease for NEM and other cryptocurrencies. Three years later Posted: 2018-01-22
Load more
5 Citations
Campbell R. Harvey , Daniel Rabetti
International business and decentralized finance
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 55 , issue 7 , p. 840 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Hany F. Atlam , Ndifon Ekuri , Muhammad Ajmal Azad , Harjinder Singh Lallie
Blockchain Forensics: A Systematic Literature Review of Techniques, Applications, Challenges, and Future Directions
Electronics , volume 13 , issue 17 , p. 3568 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Mohd Azeem Faizi Noor , Khurram Mustafa
A comprehensive analysis of cryptocurrency breaches at endpoint
International Journal of Information Security , volume 24 , issue 3 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Tiago Dinis , Roger Tavares , Miguel Correia
Large Language Models for Explainable Threat Intelligence
, p. 3 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,778
RANK
31,083
5 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies