Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Internal Control Effectiveness through the Joint Role of Forensic Accounting and Corporate Governance

10 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2023

Abdallah Alzoubi

Department of accounting, Faculty of economics and administrative sciences, The Hashemite University.

Date Written: February 21, 2023

Abstract

This paper explores the joint role of forensic accounting and corporate governance in enhancing the internal control effectiveness. The paper the importance of having strong and effective internal control systems in place, and the critical role that forensic accounting and corporate governance play in ensuring that these systems are functioning effectively. This paper demonstrates the importance of incorporating key elements of internal control, such as risk assessment, control activities, communication and information systems, internal audit, and monitoring and reporting, into the overall internal control system. This paper have important implications for organizations of all sizes and across all sectors, and can be used to inform policy-makers and regulators in their efforts to promote strong and effective internal control systems. This paper underscores the importance of investing in effective internal control systems, and highlights the key role that forensic accounting and corporate governance play in enhancing the effectiveness of these systems.

Keywords: Internal Control, Forensic Accounting, and Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Alzoubi, Abdallah, Enhancing Internal Control Effectiveness through the Joint Role of Forensic Accounting and Corporate Governance (February 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4366049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4366049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,636
RANK
149,830
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies