Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scandal-Tainted WIRECARD Files for Bankruptcy - Accounting Frauds Case Study

CASE Research Paper Forthcoming

10 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2023 Last revised: 9 Mar 2023

Baranidharan Subburayan

School of Business and Management, Christ University

Date Written: March 2, 2023

Abstract

This case study examines the scandal at Wirecard AG, a German payment processing and financial services company, which filed for insolvency in June 2020. The scandal involved accounting fraud and misreporting of revenue, and was first uncovered by Financial Times journalists in 2019. The case study looks at the background of Wirecard AG, the details of the scandal, the company's response, and the eventual filing for insolvency. The case study concludes by discussing the implications of the scandal for the company, its shareholders, and the financial industry as a whole.

Keywords: Wirecard AG, Insolvency, Accounting Fraud, Misreporting, Revenue, Financial Services, Payment Processing, Scandal, Germany, Financial Industry

JEL Classification: G32, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Subburayan, Baranidharan, Scandal-Tainted WIRECARD Files for Bankruptcy - Accounting Frauds Case Study (March 2, 2023). CASE Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4375915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4375915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,094
RANK
44,191
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies