Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Leaks and Tax Havens

Research Handbook on the Economics of Tax Havens, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 14 May 2023 Last revised: 26 Sep 2023

Hannes F. Wagner

Bocconi University - Department of Finance; Bocconi University - IGIER - Innocenzo Gasparini Institute for Economic Research; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Stefan Zeume

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: May 2, 2023

Abstract

Data leaks create what is otherwise least associated with tax havens: transparency. Tax haven data leaks have occurred repeatedly and with increasing frequency since 2013, raising a natural question: What can we learn from data leaks about tax havens? We provide a practical guide for understanding and working with data leaks, highlight insights that have been gained from them, and illustrate the potential uses of the leaked data, while outlining avenues for future research. We focus on major tax haven data leaks over the 2013 to 2021 period, and particularly on the five large data leaks covered by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), which cover more than 800,000 offshore corporations, tens of millions of documents, and more than 8 terabytes of data: the Offshore Leaks, the Luxembourg Leaks, the Panama Papers, the Bahamas Leak, the Paradise Papers Leak and the Pandora Papers.

Keywords: data leak, tax haven, Panama Papers, Paradise Papers, offshore vehicles, secrets, data breach, tax avoidance, tax evasion, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Wagner, Hannes F. and Zeume, Stefan, Data Leaks and Tax Havens (May 2, 2023). Research Handbook on the Economics of Tax Havens, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4435685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4435685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
P Akey , S Lewellen , I Liskovich , C Schiller
Hacking Corporate Reputations
Posted: 2021
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , G Zucman
Who Owns the Wealth in Tax Havens? Macro Evidence and Implications for Global Inequality
Journal of Public Economics , volume 162 , p. 89 - 100 Posted: 2018
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , G Zucman
Tax Evasion and Inequality
American Economic Review , volume 109 , p. 2073 - 2103 Posted: 2019
A Alstadsaeter , B Planterose , G Zucman , A Økland
Who Owns Offshore Real Estate? Evidence from Dubai. EU Tax Observatory Working Paper #1 Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Marcel Olbert , Christoph Spengel , Stefan Weck
Multinational Firms in Tax Havens – Corporate Motives, Regulatory Countermeasures, and Recent Statistics
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 126 · 36 Pages · Posted: 26 Jul 2023 · Last revised: 13 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 171
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,100
RANK
123,612
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies