Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extending Dimensions of Forensic Accounting and the Organizations’ Strategies and Accountability: A Governmental Perspective

11 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2023

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: June 19, 2023

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to present the impact of extending the dimensions of forensic accounting by percentages of influence, in order to overcome negative aspects in the governmental sector, for the purpose of improving the governmental organizations’ strategies and accountability. I construct the hypothesis for this paper based on this potential impact. Thus, I use an approach for the expected value and variance of random variable test in order to analyze this potential impact. Then, I support the examination by discrete probability distribution and continuous probability distribution. I find a probability of 82.9% to have a significant potential impact of 67.1 % influence on improving the strategies and accountability of the governmental organizations, which in turn, helps contribute to the economy growth, reduce corruption and improve organizational behaviors.

Keywords: forensic accounting, organization strategies, accountability, governmental sector, internal control

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Extending Dimensions of Forensic Accounting and the Organizations’ Strategies and Accountability: A Governmental Perspective (June 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4484058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4484058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
309
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies