Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Rewards Appropriate Levels of Professional Skepticism?

39 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023 Last revised: 23 Jan 2024

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Tammie Rech Schaefer

University of Missouri at Kansas City

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

The audit profession’s technical and ethical standards require the application of
professional skepticism throughout the financial statement audit process, as auditor skepticism is
essential for detecting financial statement fraud and protecting the investing public. However,
recent research suggests that audit supervisors often punish staff for exercising skepticism,
presenting auditors with an ethical conflict between acting in their own self-interest and acting in
a way that improves audit quality and protects the public. This research also suggests that
supervisors who reward appropriate skeptical behavior, regardless of the outcome, appear to
develop staff that are more likely to detect and convey fraud red flags to their superiors. Building
on this research, we use a case-based survey to identify the characteristics of audit supervisors
(audit seniors and managers) who are more likely to reward appropriate skepticism, even if it
ultimately does not identify a misstatement. We find that trait skepticism, especially suspending
one’s judgment, positively drives the evaluations of professional skepticism in our setting. Also,
we observe that when supervisors believe that their own audit partner will view the skepticism
favorably, they “pay it forward” by rewarding their own staff who engage in skepticism. Our
findings identify the characteristics that audit firms may want to develop and foster in auditors
rising to supervisory levels.

Keywords: fraud red flag, incentives, performance evaluation, professional skepticism, rewards

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Leiby, Justin and Schaefer, Tammie Rech, Who Rewards Appropriate Levels of Professional Skepticism? (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4489918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4489918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Guide to Data Analytics Posted: 2017
D Barr-Pulliam , J F Brazel , J Mccallen , K Walker
Data analytics and skeptical actions: The countervailing effects of false positives and consistent rewards for skepticism Posted: 2022
J F Brazel , K L Jones , M F Zimbelman
Using nonfinancial measures to assess fraud risk
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1135 - 1166 Posted: 2009-12
J F Brazel , K L Jones , D Prawitt
Auditors' reactions to inconsistencies between financial and nonfinancial measures: the interactive effects of fraud risk assessment and a decision prompt
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 156 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
940
RANK
373,551
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies