Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wearing Out the Watchdog: The Impact of SEC Case Backlog on the Formal Investigation Process

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023

Samuel B. Bonsall

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Eric Holzman

Indiana University

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 19, 2023

Abstract

We examine a comprehensive set of investigations by the SEC’s Division of Enforcement offices to provide evidence on the consequences of these office’s busyness on the formal investigation process. We find that higher office case backlog decreases the likelihood of an investigation into a restating firm. Our results show no evidence that higher backlogs affect the SEC’s ability to pursue cases involving revenue recognition issues and high insider trading, which is consistent with the agency’s stated priorities. But our findings indicate that busy SEC offices are less likely to pursue cases with the largest shareholder losses, which is inconsistent with SEC priorities. Backlog also impacts pursued investigations, leading to more prolonged investigations, a lower AAER likelihood, and smaller SEC penalties. Our evidence suggests that busyness undermines the SEC’s investigation process.

Keywords: SEC enforcement, investigations, misreporting, financial misconduct

JEL Classification: G18, G38, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bonsall, Samuel B. and Holzman, Eric and Miller, Brian P., Wearing Out the Watchdog: The Impact of SEC Case Backlog on the Formal Investigation Process (July 19, 2023). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4520927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Agrawal , T Cooper
Insider trading before accounting scandals
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 34 , p. 169 - 190 Posted: 2015
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
K Anderson , T Yohn
The effect of 10-K restatements on firm value, information asymmetries, and investors' reliance on earnings Posted: 2002
S Avakian
Measuring the Impact of the SEC's Enforcement Program Posted: 2018-09-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
848
RANK
61,303
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies