Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Externalities of Financial Statement Fraud on the Incoming Accounting Labor Force

108 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023

Robert R. Carnes

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Dane M. Christensen

University of Oregon

Paul E. Madsen

University of Florida

Date Written: July 24, 2023

Abstract

Financial statement fraud generates many negative effects, including reducing people’s willingness to participate in the stock market. If it also stigmatizes accounting, it may similarly adversely affect the quantity and quality of workers willing to become accountants, thereby potentially creating negative effects for years to come. We examine the impact of fraud on the labor force entering the accounting profession, which is a key input into the production of accounting information (i.e., the output). Using data describing millions of college students across the U.S., we find incoming students are actually more likely to major in accounting when local frauds occur during their formative years. These students are also more likely to have attributes desired by the accounting profession (e.g., high academic aptitude) and are more likely to subsequently serve in public accounting and become CPAs. In the context of other fields (i.e., all college majors), we find that fraud similarly spurs interest in other business disciplines, but not in majors outside of business schools. Those attracted to other business disciplines, however, generally possess different traits. Specifically, students entering accounting are distinctively more likely to exhibit values espoused by the accounting profession, including a predisposition to public service and less commercial orientation. Thus, non-pecuniary motives appear to uniquely drive accounting student enrollment following fraud. Collectively, our findings suggest that, while fraud is unmistakably bad, it appears to have the positive unintended consequence of attracting labor into business disciplines and, in accounting, increasing the prevalence of desirable traits among entrants.

Keywords: Financial Statement Fraud, Accounting, Labor Force; Higher Education

JEL Classification: K42; M41; R10, I23

Suggested Citation:

Carnes, Robert and Christensen, Dane M. and Madsen, Paul E., Externalities of Financial Statement Fraud on the Incoming Accounting Labor Force (July 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4520039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4520039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
G Akerlof , R Kranton
Economics and identity
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
G Akerlof , R Kranton
Identity and schooling: Some lessons for the economics of education
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 40 , p. 1167 - 1201 Posted: 2002
W S Albrecht , R J Sack
Trends in the supply of accounting graduates and the demand for public accounting recruits Posted: 2000
D A Anderson
The Aggregate Burden of Crime
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , p. 611 - 642 Posted: 1999
Load more
6 Citations
Philipp Krueger , Zacharias Sautner , Dragon Yongjun Tang , Rui Zhong
The Effects of Mandatory ESG Disclosure Around the World
Journal of Accounting Research, forthcoming, Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 21-44, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 754/2021, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, · 75 Pages · Posted: 26 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 25 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 19,613
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Frank Weikai Li , Baolian Wang
The Gender Effects of COVID: Evidence from Equity Analysts
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming · 62 Pages · Posted: 10 Jun 2021 · Last revised: 28 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 1,275
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jade Chen
When Employees Go to Court: Employee Lawsuits and Talent Acquisition in Audit Offices
83 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2023 · Last revised: 28 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Paul E. Madsen
Race and Gender Through the University to Audit Firm Pipeline
80 Pages · Posted: 29 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 284
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,358
RANK
218,958
6 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies