Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Layering and Spoofing in Markets

58 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2023 Last revised: 3 Nov 2023

Bao Linh Do

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Tālis J. Putniņš

University of Technology Sydney (UTS); Digital Finance CRC; Stockholm School of Economics, Riga

Date Written: July 26, 2023

Abstract

Layering and spoofing are among the fastest growing market manipulation techniques, involving placing non-genuine orders into a market to deceive other traders. We develop empirical techniques to detect this prohibited trading. Using a comprehensive, global sample of prosecuted cases and out-of-sample cross-validation tests, we find that the best empirical indicators of spoofing include unbalanced order book quotes, high order activity, abnormal order cancellations, as well as cyclical patterns in market depth and cancellations. Models combining these characteristics achieve high out-of-sample detection accuracy rates, especially when combined with machine learning.

Keywords: layering, spoofing, manipulation, detection

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Do, Bao Linh and Putnins, Talis J., Detecting Layering and Spoofing in Markets (July 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4525036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4525036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
F Allen , D Gale
Stock-price manipulation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 5 , p. 503 - 529 Posted: 1992
F Allen , L Litov , J Mei
Large investors, price manipulation, and limits to arbitrage: An anatomy of market corners
Review of Finance , volume 10 , p. 645 - 693 Posted: 2006
D Bernhardt , R J Davies
Smart fund managers? Stupid money?
Canadian Journal of Economics , volume 42 , p. 719 - 748 Posted: 2009
B Biais , P Hillion , C Spatt
An empirical analysis of the limit order book and the order flow in the Paris Bourse
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , p. 1655 - 1689 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,462
RANK
35,484
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies