Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Accounting Fraud Motivation, Protection Procedures, and Firms’ Performance: External Auditors’ Perspective

Yaqoub, M., Hamad, S., Alhammadi, H., ElKelish, W. W., Abdalla, Y. A., & Hussain, A. (2023). Corporate Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 7(3), 19–26. https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv7i3p2

8 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2023

M. Yaqoub

University of Sharjah

S. Hamad

University of Sharjah

H. Alhammadi

University of Sharjah

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Yousif Abdalla

University of Sharjah

Atia Hussain

University of Sharjah - College of Business Administration

Date Written: August 3, 2023

Abstract

This paper explores accounting fraud motivation, protection procedures, and the impact on firms‘ performance from the perspective of external auditors. Data were collected through semi-structured interviews with highly experienced external public auditors. This paper highlights personal and environmental factors as the two most essential fraud motivations. Examining and checking on the internal audit system‘s strengths and weaknesses are more important in detecting fraud than training and auditing procedures. Besides, the findings show that modern technology can minimize the chances of fraud by providing efficient and timely preventive measures (Halbouni et al., 2016). However, it is difficult for software developers to create systems that address new types of fraud, explaining why human auditing skills are vital in detecting procedures. The findings highlight similarities and differences in technology use in the private and public sectors‘ fraud protection procedures. Furthermore, fraud activities, directly and indirectly, affect revenues, reputation, and customer trust, respectively (Omar et al., 2016). By understanding the motivations for fraud, protection procedures, and the impact on firms‘ performance, this study has the potential to contribute to the development of best practices and effective strategies for preventing, detecting, and managing accounting fraud.

Keywords: Fraud Motivation, Fraud Protection, Firms‘ Performance, Auditors

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Yaqoub, M. and Hamad, S. and Alhammadi, H. and Elkelish, Walaa and Abdalla, Yousif and Hussain, Atia, Understanding Accounting Fraud Motivation, Protection Procedures, and Firms’ Performance: External Auditors’ Perspective (August 3, 2023). Yaqoub, M., Hamad, S., Alhammadi, H., ElKelish, W. W., Abdalla, Y. A., & Hussain, A. (2023). Corporate Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 7(3), 19–26. https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv7i3p2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4530048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
868
RANK
281,769
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies