Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fighting Fraud and Corruption in European Structural and Investment Funds

Gallud Cano, J., Baumgärtler, T., Eudelle, P. (2022). Fighting Fraud and Corruption in European Structural and Investment Funds. In: Blanco-Alcántara, D., García-Moreno Rodríguez, F., López-de-Foronda Pérez, Ó. (eds) Fraud and Corruption in EU Funding. Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Finan

39 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2023

Thomas Baumgärtler

Offenburg University

Philipp Eudelle

Offenburg University

Jorge Gallud Cano

University of Valladolid - Department of Finance and Accounting

Date Written: November 30, 2022

Abstract

The aim of this study is to identify indicators at country level that could prove useful in improving the effectiveness of fraud detec-tion in European Structural and Investment Funds. The chapter analyses EU funds, belonging to the period 2014–2020, from and the study suggests the convenience of tracking funds, especially in countries with higher GDP and higher transparency levels, and the lesser relevance of the number of irregularities for countries with higher GDP and those receiving larger funds. Fraud and fraud detection rates in individual funds vary significantly across states. Federal states, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, are comparatively successful in detecting fraud in EU funds.

Suggested Citation:

Baumgärtler, Thomas and Eudelle, Philipp and Gallud Cano, Jorge, Fighting Fraud and Corruption in European Structural and Investment Funds (November 30, 2022). Gallud Cano, J., Baumgärtler, T., Eudelle, P. (2022). Fighting Fraud and Corruption in European Structural and Investment Funds. In: Blanco-Alcántara, D., García-Moreno Rodríguez, F., López-de-Foronda Pérez, Ó. (eds) Fraud and Corruption in EU Funding. Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Finan, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4561834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4561834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Bibliography Beugelsdijk , Maaike , C W Sylvester , Eijffinger
The Effectiveness of Structural Policy in the European Union: An Empirical Analysis for the EU-15 in 1995-2001*
Journal of Common Market Studies , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 51 Posted: 2005
Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: Guidelines on the treatment of irregularities and the assessment of fraud and corruption risks for the European Social Fund in the Federal Republic of Germany funding period
BMAS Posted: 2003
Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: Self-assessment and the strategic approach of the administrative authority to prevent and combat fraud and corruption. Internal, unpublished guide of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Posted: 2019
Alvaro Cuervo-Cazurra
Corruption in international business
Journal of World Business , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 49 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
867
RANK
508,348
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies