Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting Research Around the World

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2023

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: September 2023

Abstract

This paper reviews the relevant forensic accounting research (FAR) around the world and suggests avenues for future research in forensic accounting. The study used the thematic and systematic literature review methodology to analyse the existing literature in forensic accounting research. It was found that the major thematic areas in the literature are fraud motivation, fraud consequences, fraud detection using forensic accounting techniques, forensic accounting theory, forensic accounting skills, forensic accounting education and forensic accounting jobs. The quantity of forensic accounting research is relatively small compared to the quantity of research in other accounting specializations. forensic accounting research is well developed in the U.S. and Canada, and is less developed in Europe, Oceania and Asia. There is high interest in forensic accounting research in African countries. There is a relatively low global interest in Internet information about ‘forensic accounting research’ compared to global interest in other forensic accounting topics. Areas for future research includes the role of the environment, digitalization, religiosity, and sustainable development in forensic accounting. The implication of the findings is that forensic accounting research around the world is lopsided as some regions have more advanced FAR compared to other regions. There is a need for even development of forensic accounting research across all regions and a need to publicize the outputs of forensic accounting research to a larger audience to increase people’s interest in forensic accounting.

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Forensic Accounting Research Around the World (September 2023). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4566896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
S Abdulrahman
Forensic accounting and fraud prevention in Nigerian public sector: A conceptual paper
International Journal of Accounting & Finance Review , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 13 - 21 Posted: 2019
N Abou-Zeid , H El-Mousawi , J Younis
Impact of Forensic Accounting Domains on Financial Corruption in Lebanon-An Empirical Study
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 12 , issue 8 , p. 121 - 121 Posted: 2020
A A Adekoya , T A Oyebamiji , A B Lawal
Forensic accounting, tax fraud and tax evasion in Nigeria-Review of literatures and matter for policy consideration
International Journal of Emerging Trends in Social Sciences , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 28 Posted: 2020
S O Afriyie , M O Akomeah , G Amoakohene , B C Ampimah , C E Ocloo , M O Kyei
Forensic Accounting: A Novel Paradigm and Relevant Knowledge in Fraud Detection and Prevention
International Journal of Public Administration , volume 46 , issue 9 , p. 615 - 624 Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Muhammad Rifqi Arif Munandar , Setyaningtyas Honggowati
<p>Bibliometrics Analysis of Forensic Accounting Research</p> <div> <br> </div>
16 Pages · Posted: 3 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 3
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Muhammad Rifqi Arif Munandar , Setianingtyas Honggowati
<p>Bibliometrics Analysis of Forensic Accounting Research</p> <div> <br> </div>
16 Pages · Posted: 10 Mar 2025 · Last revised: 13 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
949
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,957
RANK
56,239
2 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies