Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Identify Norms, Laws and Regulations That Facilitate Illicit Financial Flows and Related Financial Crimes

Journal of Money Laundering Control (2023). https://doi.org/10.1108/JMLC-07-2023-0112

28 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2023

Tiago Cardão-Pito

ISEG, Universidade de Lisboa

Date Written: September 12, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: Illicit financial flows are targeted by the United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). However, these illicit flows are not entirely understood. Furthermore, they can benefit from economic norms, laws, and regulations that lack mechanisms to detect and penalize them. This paper investigates whether a recent test, the embezzler test, can be used to identify regulatory architectures that facilitate illicit financial flows and related financial crimes.

Design/methodology/approach: To develop a more advanced version of the embezzler test in terms of definitions and practical implementation methodology.

Findings: In this test, the definition of embezzlement can be understood to be the occurrence of illicit financial flows crossing the boundaries of organizations and/or countries. This is a multi-stage test, which intentionally simulates illicit financial flows to observe how well equipped is the regulatory architecture to deal with other financial offences that are related with these flows, such as theft, money laundering, fraud, corruption, market manipulation, and tax evasion.

Originality: This is the first explicit test that has been presented to identify norms, laws, and regulations that facilitate illicit financial flows and related financial crimes.

Research implications: Future research can employ the version of this test to stress test a large range of economic norms, laws, and regulations.

Practical/Social implications: This test’s new version can assist achieve the UN SDGs’ illicit financial flow reduction target. Furthermore, it can be used to study both existing and proposed norms, laws, and regulation.

Keywords: embezzler test, illicit financial flow, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), secondary offence

JEL Classification: A12, A14, A13, D4, D6, G1, G3, G4

Suggested Citation:

Cardão-Pito, Tiago, How to Identify Norms, Laws and Regulations That Facilitate Illicit Financial Flows and Related Financial Crimes (September 12, 2023). Journal of Money Laundering Control (2023). https://doi.org/10.1108/JMLC-07-2023-0112, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4569063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A A Agbor
A delineation of the impact of illicit financial flows on the right to development: details from Cameroon's special criminal court
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 877 - 890 Posted: 2023
D Alemayehu , A Cobham
Letter to António Guterres, Secretary-General United Nations Posted: 2017
R Alexander
The pursuit of criminal property Posted: 2015
Edward Elgar Alm , J Gerbrands , P Kirchler , E
Using "responsive regulation" to reduce tax base erosion
Regulation & Governance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 738 - 759 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
472,791
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies