Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which Purpose of Firm Valuation in Litigation? The HQ Example

25 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2023

L. Peter Jennergren

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: September 06, 2023

Abstract

HQ was a medium-sized Swedish banking group whose licenses were revoked in 2010. The parent company sued the board members and the audit firm for damages. NN was an expert witness for plaintiff and submitted a valuation using DCF and comparables for a but-for scenario where HQ would have survived. This valuation is an example of setting assumptions to obtain a particular result, depending on the purpose of the valuation. Two possible purposes are considered, maximizing the but-for value, and legitimizing a value that has been set in advance based on other considerations. From an analysis of unusual evidence in the DCF part of the valuation model, it appears that the purpose was to legitimize a value that had been set in advance. The author served as expert witness to defendant, with the task of rebutting NN. This paper is based on expert reports by NN and the author.

Keywords: valuation; litigation; DCF; comparables; assumptions; maximizing but-for value; legitimation

JEL Classification: M41, G21, G33

Suggested Citation:

Jennergren, L. Peter, Which Purpose of Firm Valuation in Litigation? The HQ Example (September 06, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4569283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4569283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
K Ayotte , E R Morrison
Valuation disputes in corporate bankruptcy
University of Pennsylvania Law Review , volume 166 , p. 1819 - 1851 Posted: 2018
B Ballou , D L Heitger , L Heitger , J S Pyzoha , A Reffett
The effects of experience and client-preferred outcomes on accountants' complex loss valuation judgments
Journal of Forensic Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 35 Posted: 2020
S Burchell , C Clubb , A Hopwood , J Hughes , J Nahapiet
The roles of accounting in organizations and society. Accounting , volume 5 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 1980
R R Conn
Are the courts unintentionally promoting unethical behavior in business valuators
Journal of Business Valuation and Economic Loss Analysis , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 182 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
RANK
724,439
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies