Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Fraud and Credit Risk: Illicit Practices and Their Impact on Banking Stability

Afjal, Mohd, Aidin Salamzadeh, and L o-Paul Dana. 2023. Financial Fraud and Credit Risk: Illicit Practices and Their Impact on Banking Stability. Journal of Risk and Financial Management 16:386. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm16090386

29 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2023

Dr. Mohd Afjal

Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) - VIT Business School; VIT Business School, Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore

Aidin Salamzadeh

University of Tehran - Faculty of Management

Léo‐Paul Dana

Montpellier Business School

Date Written: August 29, 2023

Abstract

The intricate relationship between financial fraud and credit risk, and their combined impact on banking stability, is a vital and under-researched aspect of financial system integrity. To fill this knowledge gap, this study embarked on a thorough bibliometric analysis of the field, utilizing 2790 documents from various sources, including 1853 articles, 504 books, and 177 reviews, spanning the years 1990 to 2023. Utilizing advanced tools, like Biblioshiny and VOSviewer, this study illuminated key geographical, thematic, and intellectual trends, shedding light on an annual growth rate of 13.43% in the related literature and an average citation per document of 28.29. This detailed analysis offered valuable insights into the current research landscape, emphasizing areas such as author collaboration, with 20.32% international co-authorships, and the prevalence of single-authored documents, at 1100. Despite the existing body of research, the interconnected dynamics between financial fraud and credit risk and their implications for banking stability remain underexplored. Therefore, this study sought to unravel this complex relationship and examine its effects at both the micro (individual banks) and macro (banking sector and wider economy) levels. The findings carry significant practical implications, informing policy development, shaping risk management strategies, and contributing to regulatory measures. Despite its limitations, including the potential transformation of identified trends due to evolving financial systems and financial crimes, this study represents a significant contribution to scholarly discourse in the field. It lays the groundwork for future research and facilitates a more secure and resilient banking sector, reflecting the data-driven insights obtained from the research.

Keywords: financial fraud; credit risk; banking stability; bibliometric analysis; regulatory measures; risk management strategies; policy development

Suggested Citation:

Afjal, Mohd and Salamzadeh, Aidin and Dana, Léo‐Paul, Financial Fraud and Credit Risk: Illicit Practices and Their Impact on Banking Stability (August 29, 2023). Afjal, Mohd, Aidin Salamzadeh, and L o-Paul Dana. 2023. Financial Fraud and Credit Risk: Illicit Practices and Their Impact on Banking Stability. Journal of Risk and Financial Management 16:386. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm16090386 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4583870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
W Albrecht , Chad O Steve , Conan C Albrecht , Mark F Albrecht , Zimbelman
Posted: 2008
Edward I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Edward I Altman , G Robert , Paul Haldeman , Narayanan
ZETATM analysis A new model to identify bankruptcy risk of corporations
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 1 , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977
H Baker , John R Kent , Nofsinger
Psychological Biases of Investors
Financial Services Review , volume 11 , p. 97 - 117 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
635,835
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies