Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securing ATM Transactions Using Double Authentication

Proceedings of the International Conference on Innovative Computing & Communication (ICICC 2024)

5 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2023

Khushi Jindal

HMR Institute of Technology and Management, New Delhi

Nimit Jain

HMR Institute of Technology and Management, New Delhi

Aman Kumar Karn

HMR Institute of Technology and Management, New Delhi

Nikhil Kumar

HMR Institute of Technology and Management, New Delhi

Pratibha Sharma

HMR Institute of Technology and Management, New Delhi

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 14, 2023

Abstract

In many nations today, ATM fraud is on the rise. There were around 2000 frauds reported in India. By using this ATM facial password initiative, debit or ATM cards could be swapped, reducing scams and enhancing banking security. The user won't have to take their debit card with them everywhere. The use of ATMs makes banking simpler, however, fraud is a common occurrence with them. Numerous mistakes and misleading statements have happened frequently in financial transactions. Considering how inconvenient it is to carry ATM cards, people may forget to bring them. Therefore, the creation of a system that will safeguard consumers from fraud and other security breaches is desperately needed. Our recommendation promotes the use of biometrics as an authentication method as opposed to an ATM card. Considering that the integration of these biometrics has established itself as the best method for identification and verification. The issue of unauthorized individuals gaining access to ATMs with a valid login code is brought up by their use. The images used to verify the

Keywords: ATM, debit, cards

Suggested Citation:

Jindal, Khushi and Jain, Nimit and Kumar Karn, Aman and Kumar, Nikhil and Sharma, Pratibha, Securing ATM Transactions Using Double Authentication (October 14, 2023). Proceedings of the International Conference on Innovative Computing & Communication (ICICC 2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4602216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4602216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Santhosh Murugesan , Sasi Kumar , Sasiwarman , Valanarasu
Security ATM Transactions using Face Recognition
International Journal of Advance Trends in Computer Science and Engineering , volume 9 , issue 2 Posted: 2020-04
D Anil , Nikita B Gujar , Sawant , L Tejas , Aadesh A Hake , Shete , M Shreekar , Deshmukh
Face Recognition Open CV Based ATM Security System
International Journal for Research in Applied Science & Engineering Technology , volume 10 Posted: 2020-05
Kresimir Delac , Mislav Grgic
A Survey of Biometric Recognition Methods, 46 th International Symposium Electronics in Marine Posted: 2004-06
Mohsin Karovaliya , Saifali Karedia , Sharad Oza , D R Kalbande
Enhanced Security for ATM Machine with OTP and Facial Recognition Features, Procedia Computer Science , volume 45 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
418
RANK
357,435
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Conference on Innovative Computing & Communication (ICICC) 2024

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies