Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of Aggressive Accounting Choices on Auditor Changes

47 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2023

Yan-Yu Chou

National Pingtung University

Ying Chou Lin

Southeastern Oklahoma State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yu-Chen Lin

National Cheng Kung University - Accounting

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

Previous research has established a correlation between receiving unfavorable audit opinions and changing auditors. However, these studies often overlook the influence of managerial opportunism on accounting choices in such decisions. To address this gap, we build upon Lennox's (2000) framework to investigate how aggressive accounting and audit opinions impact auditor-switching decisions. By analyzing a sample of US companies from 2002 to 2018, we find that companies engaged in aggressive accounting are more likely to time changes to coincide with receiving favorable audit opinions. Furthermore, these companies tend to dismiss their incumbent auditors rather than have them resign, and they are more inclined to select smaller audit firms as their successors. This pattern of dismissal and downward switching suggests that management engages in risky and opportunistic behaviors to secure lenient opinions. Additional tests reveal that companies with aggressive accounting often persist in their accounting practices after changing auditors, though the market does not fully comprehend the opportunistic motives behind these switches. Overall, our findings suggest that the managers' desire to manipulate earnings significantly influences their auditor-switching decisions, reinforcing concerns raised by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regarding potentially problematic auditor-switching practices and their impact on auditor independence and audit quality.

Keywords: Auditor switching, Audit opinion, Earnings management, Opinion shopping

JEL Classification: M42,O16

Suggested Citation:

Chou, Yan-Yu and Lin, Ying Chou and Lin, Yu-Chen, The Impacts of Aggressive Accounting Choices on Auditor Changes (October 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4610878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4610878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
A firm's system of quality control
Statements on quality control standards , issue 7 Posted: 2007
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Audit J Pract Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
E Bartov , F A Gul , J Tsui , Sl
Discretionary-accruals models and audit qualifications
J Account Econ , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 421 - 452 Posted: 2000
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemp Account Res , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
884
RANK
439,204
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies