Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The (in)adequacy of legal contingency reporting

56 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2023

Kevin Standridge

University of Utah - School of Accounting and Information Systems

Abigail M. Allen

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Date Written: October 24, 2023

Abstract

Do firms provide adequate, timely, and transparent reporting on impending contingent litigation losses? Despite intense regulatory debate, related empirical evidence is sparse, dated, and lacks empirical identification. We use a hand-collected sample of firm disclosures together with novel legal dates to empirically identify conformity with the probability and estimability conditions of ASC 450. This innovation allows us to distinguish what should be reported from what is reported. Contrary to regulators’ expressed optimism, our findings suggest that current reporting of litigation losses is inadequate, untimely, and lacks transparency. In a high-powered setting where losses are unambiguously material, probable, and estimable, we find that roughly one sixth of firms fail to observably report accruals or estimated losses. Further, we find that less than 10% of material litigation losses are reported in advance of preliminary lawsuit resolution. Additionally, more than half of disclosures lack transparency about the underlying accounting treatment. Finally, our evidence suggests that legal contingency reporting is insensitive to a dramatic shift in the probability of litigation losses but highly sensitive to changes in estimability. Our results imply that managers overwhelmingly report contingent liabilities more like regular liabilities, waiting to report until contingent losses are nearly certain and precisely quantified.

Keywords: litigation, contingent liability, securities law

JEL Classification: K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Standridge, Kevin and Allen, Abigail M. and Thornock, Jacob, The (in)adequacy of legal contingency reporting (October 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4611872 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4611872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Financial reporting disclosures: Investor perspectives on transparency, trust and volume Posted: 2013
L Cen , F Chen , Y Hou , G D Richardson
Strategic disclosures of litigation loss contingencies when customer-supplier relationships are at risk
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 159 Posted: 2018
C W Chen , D W Collins , T D Kravet , R D Mergenthaler
Financial statement comparability and the efficiency of acquisition decisions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 164 - 202 Posted: 2018
E Chasan
FASB Dumps Loss Contingency Disclosure Project. Wall St
Journal Posted: 2012-07-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,145
RANK
288,800
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies