Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Potential: Smart Contracts and the Fight against Trade-Based Money Laundering in International Trade

Published in the Journal of " International Journal of Blockchain Technologies and Applications (IJBTA)" Volume: 2, Number: 1, 2024; Link: https://www.ijbta.com/show-175-2129-1.html

11 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2023 Last revised: 31 May 2024

Md Romel Sharif

Independent

Date Written: October 29, 2023

Abstract

In the evolving landscape of international trade, this comprehensive exploration delves into the paradigm shift enabled by smart contracts, challenging the traditional role of Documentary Credits (LCs). By prioritizing transparency, the article showcases how the integration of smart contracts revolutionizes proforma invoicing submission and offers a robust mechanism for scrutinizing over and under-invoicing—an entrenched tactic in Trade-Based Money Laundering (TBML). The innovative concept of introducing a bidding process within smart contracts opens doors for global participation, reducing entry barriers for startups and entrepreneurs, thereby transforming poverty into prosperity. These transformative mechanisms, rooted in blockchain technology, mark a compelling shift towards combatting TBML and fostering a more inclusive and dynamic global economy.

Keywords: Smart Contracts, International Trade, Transparency, Trade-Based Money Laundering (TBML), Proforma Invoicing, Over and Under Invoicing, Poverty to Prosperity, Blockchain Technology

JEL Classification: E42, E44, E52, E58, G21

Suggested Citation:

Sharif, Md Romel, Exploring the Potential: Smart Contracts and the Fight against Trade-Based Money Laundering in International Trade (October 29, 2023). Published in the Journal of " International Journal of Blockchain Technologies and Applications (IJBTA)" Volume: 2, Number: 1, 2024; Link: https://www.ijbta.com/show-175-2129-1.html, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4616946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4616946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Advisory on Trade-Based Money Laundering
Unodc
Trade-Based Money Laundering
Wolfsberg Group
Trade Finance Principles
W Mougayar
The Business Blockchain: Promise, Practice, and Application of the Next Internet Technology Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
650
RANK
502,079
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies