Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Card Financial Fraud Detection Using Deep Learning

Proceedings of the International Conference on Innovative Computing & Communication (ICICC 2024)

7 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2023

Priyanshu Katiyar Zorion

Department of Computer Science and Engineering Sharda University

Lakshay Sachan

Department of Computer Science and Engineering Sharda University

Rithik Chhabra

Department of Computer Science and Engineering Sharda University

Vishal Pandey

Department of Computer Science and Engineering Sharda University

Dr. Hoor Fatima

Department of Computer Science, Sharda University, Greater Noida

Date Written: November 10, 2023

Abstract

Credit card financial scams and frauds are on the rise as a result of the expanding use of credit cards in the world of financial transactions, which costs banks and clients’ significant sums of money. This study suggests a deep learning and artificial neural network (ANN) based credit card fraud detection system. Prior to feeding the credit card transaction data into the deep learning and ANN models, the approach requires feature selection, normalization, and pre-processing. This study compares the performance of various deep learning designs, including convolutional and recurrent neural networks, to that of other machine learning models. The findings demonstrate that in terms of detecting credit card fraud with high accuracy and few false positives, the proposed deep learning and ANN-based methodology outperforms conventional machine learning techniques. Overall, the study underscores the significance of implementing these methods to improve the security and safe use of credit card transactions and shows how well they work in detecting credit card fraud. This study also explores possible future research directions as well as the system's shortcomings. In order to increase the accuracy and resilience of credit card fraud detection systems, it is crucial to investigate ensemble approaches and the necessity of real-time fraud detection systems. Overall, this work presents insightful information about the application of ANN and deep learning approaches in credit card financial fraud detection and offers useful advice for creating robust fraud detection systems.

Keywords: Credit Card Fraud, Financial Fraud Detection, Deep Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Neural Networks, Machine Learning, Convolutional Neural Networks, Recurrent Neural Networks, Auto encoders

Suggested Citation:

Zorion, Priyanshu Katiyar and Sachan, Lakshay and Chhabra, Rithik and Pandey, Vishal and Fatima, Dr. Hoor, Credit Card Financial Fraud Detection Using Deep Learning (November 10, 2023). Proceedings of the International Conference on Innovative Computing & Communication (ICICC 2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4629093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4629093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
D Roy , S Bhaumik , S
Credit Card Fraud Detection using Deep Learning Techniques
Proceedings of the 2019 5th International Conference on Computing Communication and Automation (ICCCA) , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2019
A C Hauhan , R B Pachori
A novel approach for credit card fraud detection using deep learning algorithms
Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing , volume 11 , p. 1931 - 1942 Posted: 2020
I Bengio , Y Courville , A
Deep Learning Posted: 2016
W Han , J Shao , B
A Credit Card Fraud Detection System Based on Deep Learning
Journal of Physics: Conference Series , volume 1173 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
739
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,159
RANK
78,944
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies