Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Online Shopping Fraud Among Chinese Elderly: Extending Routine Activity Theory in the Online Context

39 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2023

Hongliang Chen

Zhejiang University

Miao He

Zhejiang University

Lulu Peng

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Abstract

Drawing from routine activity theory (RAT), this study explored the antecedents of the elderly’s exposure to online shopping fraud and evaluated the moderators of the linkage between fraud exposure and victimization. Through a survey of 471 Chinese participants aged 55 and above, we found that older adults engaging in high-risk conducts online, using insecure networks, frequently encountering promotional ads, and regularly making purchases on live-streaming platforms are at a higher risk of fraud exposure. After the exposure, those displaying excessive trust in internet platforms and possessing a high face-saving bias were more likely to experience monetary losses. Our research not only reframes RAT into a structured two-stage process—fraud exposure leading to victimization, with guardianship acting as a moderator—but also integrates the pivotal role of cognitive biases among older adults. The insights gleaned provided valuable implications for devising robust safeguards for China's elderly in the digital shopping environment.

Keywords: Older Internet users, Online shopping fraud, Risky Internet uses, Fraud exposure, Fraud victimization

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hongliang and He, Miao and Peng, Lulu, Understanding Online Shopping Fraud Among Chinese Elderly: Extending Routine Activity Theory in the Online Context. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4640396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4640396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
E Baek , H K Lee , H J Choo
Cross-border online shopping experiences of Chinese shoppers
Asia Pacific Journal of Marketing and Logistics , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 366 - 385 Posted: 2020
R W Berkowsky , S R Cotton , E A Yost , V P Winstead
Attitudestowards and limitations to ICT use in assisted and independent livingcommunities: Findings from a specially-designed technological intervention
Educational Gerontology , volume 39 , issue 11 , p. 797 - 811 Posted: 2013
A M Bossler , T J Holt
On-line activities, guardianship, and malware infection: An examination of routine activities theory
International Journal of Cyber Criminology , volume 3 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
P A Boyle , L Yu , R S Wilson , K Gamble , A S Buchman , D A Bennett
Poor decision making is a consequence of cognitive decline among older persons without Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment
PLoS ONE , volume 7 , issue 8 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Yi Yang , Jiayin Qi , Binxing Fang
“The More You Online Loan, the Safer You Are?” a Study of the Consumers’ Online Shopping Security Satisfaction
ECRA-D-24-00082 · 56 Pages · Posted: 26 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 19
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
663
RANK
514,660
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Computing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies