Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Back to Online Trading Companies for Digital Coins (Cryptocurrency) & their Dirty Legal Strategies to Drag Unprotected Investors: An Accounting & Finance View

12 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2023

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: November 26, 2023

Abstract

Almost eight months have passed since I was misled and stolen by two online trading companies for cryptocurrencies and other investments, one company is in the United Kingdom and another is in the United States of America. And subsequently, I managed to write and publish my accidental experiential study on June 5 2023 in the journal of International Journal of Cryptocurrency Research titled as: “The New Era of Online Trading Companies for Digital Coins (Cryptocurrency) Between Integrity and Abuse: Accounting and Finance Perspective

Keywords: Online trading companies, digital coins, dirty legal strategies, unprotected investors

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Back to Online Trading Companies for Digital Coins (Cryptocurrency) & their Dirty Legal Strategies to Drag Unprotected Investors: An Accounting & Finance View (November 26, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4644742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4644742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
J H Chou , P Agrawal , J Birt
Accounting for crypto-assets: stakeholders' perceptions
Studies in Economics and Finance , volume 39 , p. 471 - 489 Posted: 2022
M Dorofeyev , M Kоsov , V Ponkratov , A Masterov , A Karaev , M Vasyunina
Trends and prospects for the development of blockchain and cryptocurrencies in the digital economy
European Research Studies Journal , volume XXI , p. 429 - 445 Posted: 2018
S Dyson , W J Buchanan , L Bell
The challenges of investigating cryptocurrencies and blockchain related crime
The Journal of The British Blockchain Association , volume 1 , issue 2 Posted: 2018
A Ghosh , S Gupta , A Dua , N Kumar
Security of cryptocurrencies in blockchain technology: state-of-art, challenges and future prospects
Journal of Network and Computer Applications , volume 163 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
362
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies