Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study on the Occurrence of Asset Misappropriation in the Malaysian Security Apparatus

Husin, S. J. M., Mohamed, N., Sultan, N., Saruji, S. C., & Nauli, P. (2023). An Exploratory Study on the Occurrence of Asset Misappropriation in the Malaysian Security Apparatus. Change Management: An International Journal, 23(2), 390–413. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10457675

24 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2024

Siti Jalilah Mat Husin

University Teknologi MARA

Norazida Mohamed

University Teknologi MARA

Dr Nasir SULTAN

University of Gujrat

Syakir Che Saruji

HELP University

pigo pigo nauli

University Teknologi MARA

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 23, 2023

Abstract

Asset misappropriation (AM) cases involve the theft or unauthorized use of an organisation's assets for personal gain. It is important to note that AM in the public sector can have serious consequences, such as losing public funds and public trust and undermining essential public services. As a result, this type of fraud is regarded as a serious threat to the country's financial stability and sovereignty. The study explores fraudsters' motives concerning asset misappropriation in the Malaysian security apparatus (SA). An exploratory study was conducted considering the sensitive job nature of the SA. The study applied semi-structured interview techniques to achieve the objectives. This method is often used to get rich and relevant data from respondents. The study applied Fraud Diamond Theory to examine factors causing asset misappropriation. The study concluded that common and control mechanisms have specific weaknesses, especially concerning asset management. Further, existing SOPs require upgradation and should be aligned with contemporary best practices. The study found that all elements of the Diamond Fraud Theory significantly affect the behaviour of perpetrators. Therefore, the study suggested an exemplary role of seniors and robust whistle-blowing culture to yield better results against perpetrators.

Keywords: Asset Misappropriation, Fraud, Fraud Diamond Theory

JEL Classification: H56, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Husin, Siti Jalilah Mat and Mohamed, Norazida and SULTAN, Dr Nasir and Saruji, Syakir Che and nauli, pigo pigo, An Exploratory Study on the Occurrence of Asset Misappropriation in the Malaysian Security Apparatus (December 23, 2023). Husin, S. J. M., Mohamed, N., Sultan, N., Saruji, S. C., & Nauli, P. (2023). An Exploratory Study on the Occurrence of Asset Misappropriation in the Malaysian Security Apparatus. Change Management: An International Journal, 23(2), 390–413. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10457675, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4684671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
907
RANK
279,521
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies