Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Open AI and its Impact on Fraud Detection in Financial Industry

Sina , A. (2023). Open AI and its Impact on Fraud Detection in Financial Industry. Journal of Knowledge Learning and Science Technology ISSN: 2959-6386 (online), 2(3), 263-281. https://doi.org/10.60087/jklst.vol2.n3.p281

19 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2024

Sina Ahmadi

National Coalition of Independent Scholars

Date Written: December 2023

Abstract

As per the Nilson report, fraudulent activities targeting cards amounted to a loss of $32.34 billion globally in 2021, a 14 % increase from the previous year. Such practices can be combated by harnessing OpenAI’s powerful machine learning and automation capabilities. Such advanced technologies help financial companies avoid any potential fraud and protect their esteemed clients' interests. Through the adoption and utilization of such innovative technologies., financial institutions will be better placed to protect their customers and entities from financial losses. Digital fraudsters are skillful in identifying loopholes and have developed cunning techniques like phishing for unsuspecting victims and wittingly swindling money off them. They are also updated in using OpenAI to develop deceitful information to scam people. This has seen the emergence of names like WormGPT and FraudGPT, reliant on generative AI models used by tech corporations with fraud intents. As a result, fraud detection techniques have to evolve with time as fraudsters progressively devise new techniques that bypass old and rigid banking security protocols and learn how to convince unsuspecting individuals to dispatch their money to them.

Keywords: OpenAI, machine learning, fraud, fintech

Suggested Citation:

Ahmadi, Sina, Open AI and its Impact on Fraud Detection in Financial Industry (December 2023). Sina , A. (2023). Open AI and its Impact on Fraud Detection in Financial Industry. Journal of Knowledge Learning and Science Technology ISSN: 2959-6386 (online), 2(3), 263-281. https://doi.org/10.60087/jklst.vol2.n3.p281, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4684331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,661
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,605
RANK
7,054
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies