Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Audit: A Case of Automotive Company, Legal and Accounting Aspect

34 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Orlando Castellanos Polo

Corporación Universitaria Americana

Date Written: December 18, 2023

Abstract

Objective: The purpose of the research is to describe the process and the results obtained in the application of forensic auditing to the administrative accounting management of an automotive company, analyzing the possible risks that affect the sustainability of the organization, as well as the role of the auditor in the assurance of financial information.

Theoretical Framework: The purpose of a forensic audit is to validate any potential risk of fraud within an organization, by corroborating findings from an internal audit and starting with a presumption of fraud. It is essential to detect all types of fraud in a timely manner to ensure business continuity.

Methodology: The study was conducted using a mixed research design, involving both descriptive and analytical approaches, and incorporating qualitative and quantitative variables. It aimed to identify the essential elements required for the development of the case study route, while following the established procedures of the International Standards on Auditing, as well as employing forensic auditing techniques validated by experts. The study was focused on detecting corporate fraud, highlighting areas of interest with respect to the potential risks of fraud, based on the results of internal control measures.

Results: The forensic audit revealed that the automotive company engaged in fraudulent activity and the extent of responsibility in its execution.

Conclusions: Forensic auditing is a vital tool for companies to detect corporate fraud and minimize financial risks.

Keywords: forensic audit, internal control, opinion, fraud, automotive company, risks.

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Castellanos Polo, Orlando, Forensic Audit: A Case of Automotive Company, Legal and Accounting Aspect (December 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4695902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4695902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
O Polo , C Charris , N , N Perez , E , B Tovar , O , O Cantillo , I , F , C
Forensic Audit: A Case of Automotive Company
Legal and Accounting Aspect REFERENCES Posted: 2023
J Aguirre , M C Flores
Corruption in South America. An approach from forensic auditing
Revista Espacios Posted: 2019
G Atagan , A Kavak
Relation Between Fraud Auditing and Forensic Accounting
Report to the Nations on occupational fraud and Abuse Posted: 2014
Criminal Organization: Its Elementary Forms
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
861
RANK
451,432
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies