Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Your Values Become Your Destiny? Insights from the Schwartz Theory of Basic Values on Factors of Fraudulent Behavior

36 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024

Natalia Mintchik

University of Cincinnati

Abstract

While the Fraud triangle is a dominating framework in fraud examination, auditing practice, and fraud-related accounting research, scholars commonly criticize this framework for depicting a fraudster as a lone wolf and ignoring broader societal and organizational forces in fraud dynamics. In this paper I suggest that this critique is unjust as it stems from misinterpreting key aspects of the original Cressey’s ideas. I also suggest an extension of the fraud triangle framework to address some of these concerns. In particular, I review extensive evidence from social psychology and intercultural studies and advocate the inclusion of the perpetrator’s basic values in the fraud discourse. Building on this evidence, I propose that the particular value orientation (i.e., self-enhancing vs. self-transcending) influences both the perceived intensity of fraud pressures and the ease to rationalize fraud. As a result, value orientation is likely to affect probabilities for fraud to occur. Perpetrator’s values do not emerge in a vacuum and reflect multiple interacting subcultures, including family, organization, profession, and society at large. Therefore, introducing the perpetrators’ values in the fraud triangle framework opens the door for a new line of empirical research on the impact of social factors in fraud dynamics, a direction that is currently overlooked by accounting scholars.

Keywords: fraud triangle, self-enhancing values, self-transcending values, Cressey

Suggested Citation:

Mintchik, Natalia, Do Your Values Become Your Destiny? Insights from the Schwartz Theory of Basic Values on Factors of Fraudulent Behavior. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4698619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4698619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
A E Abele , B Wojciszke
Agency and communion from the perspective of self versus others
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 9 , p. 751 - 763 Posted: 2007
A E Abele , B Wojciszke
Communal and agentic content in social cognition: A dual perspective model
Advances in Experimental Social Psychology , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 195 - 255 Posted: 2014
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2018
R Agnew
Foundation for a general strain theory of crime and delinquency
Criminology , volume 30 , p. 47 - 88 Posted: 1992
Load more
1 Citations
Meng Bai , Nanyan Dong , He Zhang , Junrui Zhang , Junmin Xu
How personal values influence earnings management ethics: the mediation role of moral disengagement
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting / Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 86 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
427
RANK
765,896
1 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies