Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Magnitude of Adversarial Bias in Experts’ Estimates and the Nature of Judges’ Valuation Decisions

35 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024

Aasmund Eilifsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Finn Kinserdal

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Kjell Henry Knivsflå

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2024

Abstract

This paper provides evidence on the magnitude of valuation experts’ adversarial bias of fair value estimates in a court setting and the judge(s) valuation decisions. The study examines a unique set of 67 court cases in Norway where each party to the lawsuit presents an expert’s opinion on the value of an asset (real estate or company stock) and a judge(s) issues an opinion on the value of the asset. Using these data two research questions are investigated. First, we investigate the magnitude of the party-engaged valuation experts’ adversarial bias. Second, we examine how the judges’ valuation decisions map to the party-engaged experts’ valuations. The results show that the valuation differences between the party-engaged experts are substantial. On average, the experts’ high valuations are four times greater than the experts’ low valuations. The results also indicate that the judges’ valuation decisions tend to rely more on the experts’ low valuations than the experts’ high valuations and increasingly so when the spread of the experts’ valuations increases. These findings have important implications for situations where parties (e.g., judges, juries, banks, tax authorities, management, auditors, and users of financial information) rely on experts’ objective valuations for decision-making.

Keywords: adversarial bias; fair value estimates; experts’ valuations; court decisions

JEL Classification: M21, M40, M41,

Suggested Citation:

Eilifsen, Aasmund and Kinserdal, Finn and Knivsflå, Kjell Henry and Messier Jr, William F., The Magnitude of Adversarial Bias in Experts’ Estimates and the Nature of Judges’ Valuation Decisions (February 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4713809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4713809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
K D Allee , D Erickson , A M Esplin , T L Yohn
The characteristics, valuation methods, and information use of valuation specialists
Accounting Horizons , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 23 - 38 Posted: 2020-09
A H Ashton , R H Ashton
Aggregating subjective forecasts: Some empirical results
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 12 , p. 1499 - 1508 Posted: 1985
D Barr-Pulliam , J R Joe , S A Mason , K-A Sanderson
How valuation specialists influence fair value measurements Posted: 2023
M E Barth , G Clinch
Revalued financial, tangible, and intangible assets: Associations with share prices and non-market-based value estimates
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue sup , p. 199 - 233 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
778,745
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies