Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mars-Venus Marriage: State-Owned Shareholders And Corporate Fraud of Private Firms

75 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2024

Caiping Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yanjun Jiang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zhihong Huang

Tsinghua University

jingjing guo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We examine the impact of state-owned shareholders on fraud within private firms. Utilizing a sample of A-share private listed firms in China observed from 2008 to 2021. We discover a significant negative association between state-owned shareholders and the likelihood of fraud in private firms. State-owned shareholders primarily act as inhibitors of fraud, and their effect on the probability of fraud being detected is not statistically significant. This finding remains robust even after conducting a series of sensitivity tests to mitigate potential selectivity bias and reverse causality endogeneity issues. In the analysis of heterogeneity, we found that state-owned shareholders play a more active role under conditions of imperfect external institutional development, and they also exert a more significant inhibitory effect on enterprises with lower governance levels and higher business risks. Our mechanism test demonstrates that the inhibitory effect of state-owned shareholders on corporate fraud is achieved by improving corporate governance and alleviating financial distress. This study also examines the impact of state-owned shareholders' local characteristics, external supervision mechanisms, and internal governance mechanisms in unique Chinese enterprises on fraudulent behaviour by private enterprises. Overall, our study provides empirical evidence that state-owned shareholder ownership is associated with reducing fraudulent behaviour within private firms.

Keywords: Corporate Fraud, state-owned shareholders, institutional substitution, Corporate Governance, financing support

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Caiping and Jiang, Yanjun and Huang, Zhihong and guo, jingjing, Mars-Venus Marriage: State-Owned Shareholders And Corporate Fraud of Private Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4716349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4716349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy Posted: 2005
A Adhikari , C Derashid , H Zhang , A Agrawal , T Cooper
Public Policy, Political Connections, and Effective Tax Rates: Longitudinal Evidence From Malaysia
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 1117 - 1181 Posted: 2006
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The Cross-National Diversity of Corporate Governance: Dimensions and Determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
C R Alexander
On the Nature of the Reputational Penalty for Corporate Crime: Evidence
Journal of Law & Economics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 489 - 526 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
447
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies