Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Academic Citation Game (-Decrypting the Academic Citation Game Code)

18 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2024 Last revised: 21 Feb 2025

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: February 13, 2024

Abstract

This paper uses a case study to consider the Academic Citation Game and how we can find and interpret any gaming of the academic publication citation system.

It includes a new set of statistical metrics, based conceptually on the key intuition behind Benford’s Law, that can be used to identify potential publication citation gamers and to estimate potential over-citation rates.

It also considers the potential perverse business incentives for individual publishers, publishing groups, the academic publishing market and individual savvy academics and academic teams to play and master the Academic Citation Game.

A key conclusion is that gaming the citation system is likely to be endemic amongst global university academics and that high citation rates can be very unreliable and misleading, even intentionally misleading, indicators of academic paper quality and impact and long term value and so may have to be discounted accordingly.

Keywords: citations, publications, downloads, impact factors, gamification, Turing, gaming, perverse incentives, signal manipulation, academic ethics, gaming, academic publishing, ecosystem, game theory, Benford's Law

Suggested Citation:

Macey-Dare, Rupert, Academic Citation Game (-Decrypting the Academic Citation Game Code) (February 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4724778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Top Average Google Scholar Citations Per Paper
SSRN Matched Sample Average Citation Per Paper
Estimated Google Scholar Over-Citation Ratio
Estimated Natural Google Scholar Citation Proportion
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
289
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies