Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Fraud Detection Based on Linguistic Readability Vector: Application to Financial Companies in China

20 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2024

Yi Zhang

Southwest Jiaotong University

Liu Tianxiang

Nanjing Audit University

Weiping Li

Nanjing Audit University

Abstract

Existing research on corporate fraud identification mainly uses text data disclosed by companies to construct models. But the semantic text information is lost after vectorizing text data using natural language processing methods. Based on the linguistic features of Chinese texts, we construct a new Chinese character-level readability index, a Chinese word-level readability index, a Chinese sentence-level readability index, and a Chinese paragraph-level readability index, and consider them together to define for the first time linguistic readability vectors of Chinese text. This paper takes A-share companies in the financial industry listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges from 2005 to 2019 as the research object, and uses the natural language processing method, Word2Vec, to vectorize management's discussion and analysis (MD&A) of company annual reports. We then use machine learning algorithms to construct fraud identification models by using the readability vector data to complement the MD&A semantically. The empirical results show that performance of all three types of machine learning models improves after supplementing with the semantic information of the readability vector, with the support vector machine improving the most significantly, with 31.17%, 2.56%, 26.33%, and 2.45% improvement in accuracy, recall, F1-score, and AUC, respectively. This not only enriches the semantic interpretation of Chinese annual reports but also improves the empirical effectiveness of fraud recognition models.

Keywords: text readability vector, Machine Learning, Word2vec, fraud identification, Auditing

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Yi and Tianxiang, Liu and Li, Weiping, Corporate Fraud Detection Based on Linguistic Readability Vector: Application to Financial Companies in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4727348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4727348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Mangala , P Kumari
Corporate fraud prevention and detection: Revisiting the literature
Journal of Commerce & Accounting Research , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 45 Posted: 2015
J J Jones
Earnings management during import relief investigations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 228 Posted: 1991
M D Beneish
The detection of earnings manipulation
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 24 - 36 Posted: 1999
Ge Wu , Chen-G Ye
A study of indicators of financial reporting fraud: Empirical data from A-share listed companies
Audit Research , volume 6 , p. 34 - 41 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
RANK
580,030
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies