Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Cryptocurrency the New Haven for Tax Evaders? Exposé of Financial Secrecy in Tax Havens and Bitcoin Trading by Tax Evaders

44 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2024 Last revised: 26 Mar 2024

Congcong Li

Duquesne University - A.J. Palumbo School of Business Administration

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Date Written: February 19, 2024

Abstract

The Paradise Papers revealed an enormous number of financial secrets hidden in tax havens. In this study, we examine whether the exposé of financial secrecy motivated tax evaders to further conceal their offshore assets through the Bitcoin market, which offers greater anonymity. First, we find that the largest Bitcoin boom in history began after the initiation of the Paradise Papers investigation in February 2017 and reached its peak following the release of the Paradise Papers on November 5, 2017. Second, following the release of the Paradise Papers, the 8-week trading volume of Bitcoin grew by 106 percent in 44 countries with the largest Bitcoin exchanges. Importantly, our difference-in-differences tests find that Bitcoin exchanges in tax havens experienced significantly higher growth in trading volumes than other exchanges after the Paradise Papers. Together, these findings are consistent with the use of Bitcoin by tax evaders to conceal their hidden wealth in tax havens. Third, we do not find similar results in the stock or gold market surrounding this event. Finally, we find similar Bitcoin market reactions to the Pandora Paper. For example, the second largest Bitcoin boom started after the initiation of the Pandora Papers investigation in October 2020 and reached another new all-time high after the official release on October 3, 2021. Our study highlights the role of Bitcoin in facilitating tax evasion and money laundry and has implications for investors and regulators to understand the potential risk related to investment in the Bitcoin market.

Keywords: Bitcoin, Cryptocurrency, Financial Secrecy, Tax Evasion, Paradise Papers.

JEL Classification: H26, O31

Suggested Citation:

Li, Congcong and Ma, Mark (Shuai), Is Cryptocurrency the New Haven for Tax Evaders? Exposé of Financial Secrecy in Tax Havens and Bitcoin Trading by Tax Evaders (February 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4731408 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4731408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
D Amiram , B N Jørgensen , D Rabetti
Coins for Bombs: The Predictive Ability of On-Chain Transfers for Terrorist Attacks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , p. 427 - 466 Posted: 2022
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The Complementarity between Tax Avoidance and Manager Diversion: Evidence from Tax Haven Firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
J Allsop
The quiet impact of the Paradise Papers
Columbia Journalism Review Posted: 2017-12-22
R Böhme , N Christin , B Edelman , T Moore
Bitcoin: Economics, Technology, and Governance
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 213 - 238 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,773
RANK
210,853
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies