Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Card Competition Act of 2023 Review and Analysis

17 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2024

Ronald Bird

Independent

Date Written: April 15, 2024

Abstract

This paper assesses the need for and possible impacts of S.1838 (118th Congress), entitled Credit Card Competition Act of 2023. The paper provides a critique of the bill, including estimation of possible increases in credit card fraud that may result from its mandate that card issuers provide merchants with alternative processing network choices. The implications of the bill's applicability only to issuing banks with $100 billion in assets and its exemption for credit cards issued in 3-party model systems are examined.

Keywords: electronic payments, credit card networks, competition, banking, fraud

JEL Classification: E,H,Y

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Ronald, Credit Card Competition Act of 2023 Review and Analysis (April 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795201 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4795201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
873
RANK
531,260
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Capital Markets - Risk eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies