Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Information Technology in the Practice of Forensic Investigation Analysis for Fraud Disclosure in Indonesia

6 Pages Posted: 9 May 2024

Armanto Witjaksono

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS) - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: May 8, 2024

Abstract

The industrial revolution 4.0 where everything has shifted to a digital system. The development
of technology is getting faster and more sophisticated. By using information even fraud occurs by using technology. (fraud) is something that is planned and carried out by an individual or a group that will benefit from other parties who may be harmed. Forensic accounting and investigative auditing have a very important role in assisting the disclosure of fraud cases that occur. The purpose of this study is to understand how the role of information systems in the practice of forensic investigations can be applied to detect fraud. The research method used is descriptive qualitative method by taking data from literacy studies on research on fraud in various entities in Indonesia. The results of the study show the application of information systems in the practice of forensic investigations on prevention, detection and effective handling in disclosing fraud in various entities in Indonesia.

Keywords: Fraud, Fraud Disclosure, Fraud Investigation, Forensic, Information Technology,

JEL Classification: M4, K2, K4

Suggested Citation:

Witjaksono, Armanto, The Role of Information Technology in the Practice of Forensic Investigation Analysis for Fraud Disclosure in Indonesia (May 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4821345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4821345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Prabowo
Forensic accountant expertise and forensic accounting education in Indonesia Posted: 2017
N K S E Agusyani , M A Sujana , Wahyuni
The effect of whistleblowing system and human resource competence on fraud prevention
Scientific J. Accounting Students , volume 6 Posted: 2016
A Supriyanto
Introduction to information technology (Information Technology Salemba Posted: 2005
D Anggraini , E Triharyati , H E Novita
Forensic accounting and investigative audit in fraud disclosure
J. Economics, Business and Accounting , volume 2 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
592,557
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies