Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Theory to Practice: Python and Analytics in Accounting Fraud Detection

44 Pages Posted: 21 May 2024

David Olsen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Cindy Greenman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The increasing complexity and volume of financial transactions have highlighted the limitations of traditional fraud detection methods in accounting. As such, the integration of data analytics into accounting education has become crucial to equipping the next generation of accounting professionals with the necessary skills to combat evolving fraudulent activities.            Accounting students today are being trained to become “bilingual” professionals, fluent in both accounting principles and the analytical capabilities provided by modern data tools. By exposing accounting students to different analytical tools and teaching them how to parse financial data to identify and quantify fraudulent activities, college accounting programs can prepare their graduates to become effective forensic accountants, auditors, and advisors.            Ultimately, the integration of data analytics into accounting education is not just about teaching technical skills, but about cultivating a mindset that is a combination of analytical problem-solving using data and financial expertise.            This case integrates data analytics into accounting education by simulating a real-world scenario that allow students to build their data analytic skills that are crucial for discovering fraudulent activity. It tests the students’ critical thinking, their proficiency in using Python or Excel, and their ability to communicate complex findings effectively and efficiently.

Keywords: Accounting Fraud Detection, Data Analytics in Education, Python Programming for Forensic Accounting, Excel in Financial Fraud Analysis, Educational Tools for Fraud Prevention, Integrating Technology in Accounting Curriculum, Hands-on Learning with FinForensix Generator, Critical Thinking in Accounting Education, Scalability of Fraud Detection Methods, Customizability of Educational Fraud Detection Tools

Suggested Citation:

Olsen, David and Greenman, Cindy, From Theory to Practice: Python and Analytics in Accounting Fraud Detection. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4836385 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4836385
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Aicpa
AICPA Releases new certificate on data analytics core concepts Posted: 2021-05
J Bierstaker , D Lombardi , W Wang
WILDCAT grocery stores: a case study on information systems and data analytics
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting Posted: 2023
C Cheng , S Rhoades-Catanach , L Watson
Data analytics for undergraduate tax students: An Alteryx case study for MACRS depreciation
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 38 , issue 4 Posted: 2023
V Richardson , M Watson
Teach students to address accounting questions using data analytics
Journal of Accountancy Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
RANK
403,165
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies