Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate responsibility and corporate misbehavior: Are CSR reporting firms indeed responsible?

77 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024

Christine Reitmaier

University of Augsburg

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Julia Vollmer

University of Augsburg

Date Written: May 24, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether firms that proclaim commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR) by voluntary CSR reporting or signing an accord for better working conditions indeed internalize such commitment and behave more responsibly. In a longitudinal sample of Fortune Global 500 firms, we analyze the association of the issuance and quality of voluntary CSR reports with the occurrence, number, and severity of corporate misbehavior. We study misbehavior both as a precedent and subsequent to CSR reporting. We find a significantly positive association of CSR reporting with our measures of prior and future misbehavior. To corroborate these findings, we further analyze a second form of proclaiming commitment to CSR based on a quasi-natural experiment in textile-related industries associated with the Rana Plaza disaster where firms voluntarily signed an accord for better working conditions. The results indicate that the signatories have significantly higher prior and future misbehavior relative to firms from affected industries who did not sign the accord as well as relative to firms that were unaffected by the exogenous shock. Our results are in line with legitimacy theory implying that, on average, the firms’ proclaiming commitment to CSR is not a signal of internalized commitment but more likely serves greenwashing and impression management purposes. Corporate responsibility and corporate misbehavior: Are CSR reporting firms indeed responsible?

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility (CSR), corporate misbehavior, CSR reporting, real effects, signaling theory, legitimacy theory

JEL Classification: M31

Suggested Citation:

Reitmaier, Christine and Schultze, Wolfgang and Vollmer, Julia, Corporate responsibility and corporate misbehavior: Are CSR reporting firms indeed responsible? (May 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4840466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
189 References
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation' of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 82 Posted: 2022
D Ahmed , E Demers , J Hendriksen , P Joos , B Lev
Are ESG ratings informative about companies' socially responsible behaviors abroad? Evidence from the Russian invasion of Ukraine Posted: 2023-06-04
S Akbar , C Deegan
Analysis of corporate social disclosures of the apparel industry following crisis: an institutional approach
Accounting & Finance , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 3565 - 3600 Posted: 2021
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
713
RANK
524,565
189 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies