Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Performance and Corporate Fraud: Evidence from China

43 Pages Posted: 28 May 2024

sun yang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jun Gao

Shanghai Business School

Wenruo Wu

Shanghai International Studies University

Suyi Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We investigate the implications of the ESG performance of Chinese listed firms on their corporate fraud. Our findings suggest that a higher ESG rating can significantly inhibit corporate fraud. Mechanism analysis indicates that ESG rating affects corporate fraud by alleviating financing constraints, improving innovation, and enhancing internal control. Furthermore, the heterogeneity analysis shows that the effect of ESG rating on corporate fraud is more salient for state-owned firms or a high uncertainty perception level. Our findings have implications for regulators, investors, and policymakers to promote ESG practices to restrain corporate fraud.

Keywords: ESG Rating, corporate fraud, Financial constraints, corporate innovation, Internal control

Suggested Citation:

yang, sun and Gao, Jun and Wu, Wenruo and Liu, Suyi, ESG Performance and Corporate Fraud: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4844687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4844687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Albrecht W , S Albrecht , C Albrecht , C C
Current trends in fraud and its Detection: A global perspective Posted: 2008
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S &yang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: An analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash
Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
A M Andries , N Sprincean
ESG performance and banks' funding costs
Finance Research Letters , volume 54 Posted: 2023
K J Arrow
The economic implications of learning by doing
Review of Economic Studies , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 155 - 173 Posted: 1962
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
733
RANK
492,934
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies