Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do U.S. Multinationals Use Income Shifting to Facilitate and Hide Corruption?

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 May 2024

Paul Demere

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Jeffrey Gramlich

Carson College of Business

Yoonsoo Nam

Clemson University - Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business - Department of Finance

Date Written: May 28, 2024

Abstract

We investigate whether U.S. multinational companies use income shifting to facilitate and hide corruption activities by examining whether income shifting responds to corruption pressures. We use enforcement actions under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) as shocks to the costs of direct corruption and find that firms appear to respond to increased costs of direct corruption by shifting income abroad. This corruption-motivated income shifting is more common in industries with greater corruption exposure and among firms with more effective internal controls. We also find evidence that corruption-motivated income shifting acts differently from income shifting for tax avoidance purposes and is difficult for corporate monitors to combat. Overall, our results are consistent with companies using income shifting as an opaque tool for corruption when FCPA enforcement actions curtail more direct forms of corruption.

Keywords: Corruption, Income shifting, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.S. Multinational Companies

JEL Classification: D73, F23, H25, I31, K42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Demere, Paul and Gramlich, Jeffrey and Nam, Yoonsoo, Do U.S. Multinationals Use Income Shifting to Facilitate and Hide Corruption? (May 28, 2024). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4846608
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
373
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies