Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Analytics and Forensic Accounting Techniques for Cybersecurity Investigations: Enhancing Detection and Attribution of Breaches

13 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Mercy Ebute

New Mexico Department of Finance and Administration

Date Written: June 03, 2024

Abstract

In today's digital world, cybersecurity threats have become an unfortunate reality that we all must face. These threats are not just a minor inconvenience; they pose severe risks to individuals, businesses, and even governments. As we increasingly rely on technology in our daily lives, the potential impact of a cyberattack grows exponentially. It's a daunting challenge that demands our attention and effective investigative approaches. This article delves into the powerful combination of data analytics and forensic accounting as a means to strengthen cybersecurity investigations. In a landscape where cyber threats are constantly evolving and criminals operate across borders, we need advanced techniques to stay one step ahead. By harnessing the power of machine learning and artificial intelligence, data analytics can automate threat detection and decision-making, allowing for swift incident response. Big data analytics, in particular, enables us to identify anomalies and spot potential security threats early on.

Declaration of Interest

Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) International Association of Certified Fraud Examiners USA (CFE) The Institute of Internal Auditors USA (IIA) Project Management Institute - LinkedIn Learning.

Suggested Citation:

Ebute, Mercy, Data Analytics and Forensic Accounting Techniques for Cybersecurity Investigations: Enhancing Detection and Attribution of Breaches (June 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867129 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4867129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
S S Abdul-Jabbar , A K Farhan
Data Analytics and Techniques: A Review , volume X Posted: 2022
O E Akinbowale , P Mashigo , M F Zerihun
The integration of forensic accounting and big data technology frameworks for internal fraud mitigation in the banking industry
Cogent Business & Management , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
A Albeshri , V Thayananthan
Analytical Techniques for Decision Making on Information Security for Big Data Breaches
International Journal of Information Technology & Decision Making , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 545 Posted: 2018
S Atefi , S Panda , E Panaousis , A Laszka
Principled data-driven decision support for cyber-forensic investigations
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 37 , p. 5010 - 5017 Posted: 2023-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
891
RANK
317,057
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies