Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
HOW FORENSIC ACCOUNTANTS ADD VALUE WHILE INVESTIGATE CLAIMS & FRAUD

38 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Hisham Al Ghunaimi

A’Sharqiyah University

Date Written: August 18, 2023

Abstract

Forensic accounting is a new generation tool that has adopted modern technology to detect financial fraud. The implementation of virtual analysis and record-keeping has created a new genre in accounting by reducing the chances of error and fraud. Applicants with excellent numerical skills are generally employed as forensic accountants. They combine their auditing and accounting knowledge and abilities with specific investigative skills. This helps them to identify the fraudulent activities if there are any, and to determine the reasons behind the suspicious financial activity. The organization authorities of businesses can use this information as convincing evidence in trials. Forensic accountants represent reports of financial findings as evidence during hearings and stand out as expert witnesses. As they have expertise in the field, their testimonies often lead to the recovery of lost money in a scam. The precise application of specific software tools makes a forensic accountant different from an ordinary chartered accountant. Various tools and methods help the forensic accountant to check all the reports and store the records of the transactions and billing reports. Forensic accounting is the inevitable future of accountancy as the embodiment of technology has been proven to be quite successful in detecting and preventing fraud. Evaluating the success rate of forensic accountants, the youth tend to lean forward in this field to build their careers. The literature delves deeply into the role of forensic accountants while investigating claims and fraud. The scope and purpose of a forensic accountant are broad and highly significant in the present-day scenario. Forensic accountants are highly skilled, knowledgeable, and professional and have a shortage and expertise to analyze malpractices and initiate necessary steps for the growth and development of the business. Furthermore, small-scale businesses or companies do not have the resources to employ forensic accountants; therefore, financial scandals, scams, and fraudulent activities are more. The present role of forensic accounts focuses on controlling organizational policies and procedures misguided by unauthorized or illegal sources. Hence stringent measures in this aspect are highly beneficial because it prevents loss and enhances operational efficiencies significantly. The major function of forensic accountants is to detect fraud in financial statements so that, in the future, the business can overcome the potential risks quickly. Early detection of fraud is also cost savings for the company as they do not have to invest a hefty amount in the future to mitigate the risks of fraud.

Keywords: Fraud Detection, Audit, Bankruptcy, Insolvency, Reorganization, Investigative skills, Financial crime, Financial statement

Suggested Citation:

Al Ghunaimi, Hisham, HOW FORENSIC ACCOUNTANTS ADD VALUE WHILE INVESTIGATE CLAIMS & FRAUD (August 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4870537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4870537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
O E Akinbowale , H E Klingelhöfer , M F Zerihun
An innovative approach in combating economic crime using forensic accounting techniques
Journal of Financial Crime Posted: 2020
I Cawi
Expert Report under Scrutiny: A discursive construction of the role of a forensic accountant expert Posted: 2017
Z Dianati Deilami , A Soltani , H Omrani , O E Godwin , E P Enyi , S O Dada
Forensic accounting techniques & integrity of financial statements: an investigative approach
Curriculum Development: A Master's Degree Program in Anti-Fraud & Forensic Accounting. Valued & Behavioral Accountings Achievements , volume 3 , p. 2 - 3 Posted: 2018
F Hashem
The Role of Forensic Accounting Techniques in Reducing Cloud Based Accounting Risks in the Jordanian Five Stars Hotels
Wseas Transactions on Business & Economics , volume 18 , p. 434 - 443 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,077
RANK
541,838
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies