Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
"The Vulnerability to Fraud: Factors, Motivations, and Fraud Detection and Deterrence" 

34 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2024

Merveille Sul

Texas Woman’s University

Date Written: March 30, 2018

Abstract

The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (2016), states that "the typical organization loses 5% of revenues yearly because of fraud. Businesses are subject to fraud risk, and it is critical for organizations to put in place effective control mechanisms to prevent fraud". This research paper focuses on understating fraud and various factors that motivate people to engage in fraudulent activities. This paper also discusses different approaches to fraud detection, prevention, and deterrence.

Suggested Citation:

Sul, Merveille, "The Vulnerability to Fraud: Factors, Motivations, and Fraud Detection and Deterrence"  (March 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4876780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4876780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
S Burnoski
employees-commit-fraud-and-how-you-can-stop-them/ Collusion and Bribery Schemes
Considerations of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit , volume 316 Posted: 2010
Enterprise Risk Management Integrated Framework Posted: 2004
S A Garven
Sarbanes-oxley act
Elgar Encyclopedia of Nonprofit Management, Leadership and Governance , p. 509 - 511 Posted: 2023
D Hemanson
The Fraud Diamond: Considering the Four Elements of Fraud. Retrieved from The CPA Journal
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
633
RANK
658,366
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies