Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Origins of Limited Liability in Great Britain, the First 'Panic', and Their Implications for Limited Liability and Corporate Governance Today

25 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2004

Paul A. Barnes

Nottingham Trent University

Date Written: 31/12/2003

Abstract

Underpinning the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain was the ability by which businesses could raise funds because of the benefits of limited company status. When it became freely available, limited liability gained immensely popular. However, the crash of, and revelations of fraud at, the well-known City of London company, Overend Gurney, changed investor views to distrust and scepticism. It is shown how scepticism was gradually eroded and how limited liability eventually regained popularity. It is also shown how this illustrates the bursting of a speculative bubble and the financial instability hypothesis with similarities to the case of instability at the end of the 20th century in the UK.

Keywords: Fraud, Crash, Limited Liability, Financial Panic

JEL Classification: M40, M41, N83

Suggested Citation:

Barnes, Paul A., The Origins of Limited Liability in Great Britain, the First 'Panic', and Their Implications for Limited Liability and Corporate Governance Today (31/12/2003). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=488703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.488703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
G A Akerlof , P M Romer
Looting: the economic underworld of bankruptcy for profit
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 2 , p. 1 - 73 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Anon
1866) Finance, frauds and failures , p. 381 - 395
P A Barnes
Why do bidders do so badly out of mergers? Some UK evidence
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 25 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 571 - 594 Posted: 1998
Crossref
P A Barnes , R Firman
The Loss of Popularity of Limited Liability Companies in Great Britain in 1866 and the Role of Financial Information: A Case Study
Financial History Review , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 43 - 161 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,173
RANK
88,637
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies