Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Boundaries of Financial Statement Fraud Detection with Large Language Models

28 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2024

Georgia Boskou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Evrikleia Chatzipetrou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eleftherios Tiakas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Efstathios Kirkos

International Hellenic University (IHU)

Charalambos Spathis

Aristotle University of Thessaloniki - Department of Economics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

Financial statement fraud is a significant concern in today's world, representing the most financially destructive form of occupational fraud. It negatively impacts a wide array of stakeholders, including the organization itself, its investors, creditors, suppliers, employees, and the general public. Given its critical importance, this issue has been a focal point of scholarly research over the past decades. Previous studies have utilized a diverse array of statistical, machine learning, and deep learning techniques to analyze both arithmetic and textual data. However, the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) for detecting financial statement fraud remains largely unexplored. Recent scholarly work underscores the potential of LLMs in various linguistic analyses and auditing tasks. In this study, we examine the ability of an LLM, specifically ChatGPT-4, to identify fraudulent financial statements by analyzing text segments extracted from annual reports. We focus particularly on the CEO’s letters to shareholders and sections discussing the company’s risk exposures. Rather than employing complex fine-tuning, we utilize prompt engineering techniques, that can be easily implemented by auditors without machine learning expertise. The findings are promising, demonstrating the potential of LLMs to uncover financial statement falsifications. By incorporating human feedback into the model’s classification results, we achieved a performance score of 67% across sensitivity, specificity, and F-Measure metrics. With the ongoing growth in model size and capabilities, coupled with active research in prompt engineering, we anticipate further improvements in performance shortly. This research could prove invaluable to auditors, lenders, investors, and regulatory bodies.

Keywords: Financial Statement Fraud, Large Language Models, Prompt Engineering, Auditing

Suggested Citation:

Boskou, Georgia and Chatzipetrou, Evrikleia and Tiakas, Eleftherios and Kirkos, Efstathios and Spathis, Charalambos, Exploring the Boundaries of Financial Statement Fraud Detection with Large Language Models. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4897041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4897041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
M A K Achakzai , J Peng
Detecting financial statement fraud using dynamic ensemble machine learning
International Review of Financial Analysis (Online)/International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 89 Posted: 2020
M N Ashtiani , B Raahemi
Intelligent Fraud Detection in Financial Statements Using Machine learning and Data Mining: A Systematic Literature review
IEEE Access , volume 10 , p. 72504 - 72525 Posted: 2022
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , P D Lapides
Fraudulent Financial Reporting: consideration of industry traits and corporate governance mechanisms
Accounting Horizons , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 441 - 454 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
RANK
63,456
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies