Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Inclusion, Financial Crime and Fraud Detection

12 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2024

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: July 19, 2024

Abstract

The objective of this article is to discuss the role of financial inclusion in combating financial crime. It was found that financial crime is a challenge in society. Financial crime is any action or omission that leads to unlawful or illegal financial dealings. Many countries are seeking ways to combat financial crime. Many ideas have been considered on how to combat financial crime. Financial inclusion is a possible solution for combating financial crime. Financial inclusion involves granting access to basic formal financial services to all segments of society. I show that financial inclusion makes the work of investigators easier by leaving an audit trail whenever financial crime is committed in the formal financial system. It helps investigators to detect fraud or financial crime that has occurred in the formal financial system.

Keywords: financial inclusion, financial crime, fraud detection

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Financial Inclusion, Financial Crime and Fraud Detection (July 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4906281 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4906281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Abdallah , M A Maarof , A Zainal
Fraud detection system: A survey
Journal of Network and Computer Applications , volume 68 , p. 90 - 113 Posted: 2016
W N Abdullah , R Said
Audit and risk committee in financial crime prevention
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 223 - 234 Posted: 2019
M V Achim , S N Borlea
Economic and Political Determinants of Economic and Financial Crime
Economic and Financial Crime , p. 73 - 176 Posted: 2020
M V Achim , S N Borlea , V L Văidean
Does technology matter for combating economic and financial crime? A panel data study. Technological and economic development of economy , volume 27 , p. 223 - 261 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
428
RANK
753,521
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Internal Governance, Organization & Processes eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies