Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corruption and the Resource Curse: The Case of Timor-Leste

Posted: 13 Sep 2024

Michael King

Griffith University

Abdul Rafay

University of Management & Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Date Written: September 30, 2023

Abstract

In Timor-Leste, one of the newest nations in the world, a case of corruption is explored in this chapter, which is associated with the resource curse of official corruption. The case involves an expatriate tax lawyer who worked for the Ministry of Finance and orchestrated a 'taxation miracle' for 'his' adopted country. He was charged for a $3.51 million wire-fraud by the United States Department of Justice and subsequently sentenced to six years of imprisonment. However, the case was found to be more complex than simple fraud and official corruption. The findings indicate that the key elements that led to the fraud were a series of misadventures arising from issues of hiring, management, cybercrime, and weak internal controls. It has also been suggested that the fraud was allowed to perpetuate due to the collusion of several multinational resource companies, costing the Timor-Leste taxpayers as much as $176 million.

Keywords: Dutch disease, FBI, Wire Fraud, Oil, Taxation, Public Sector, Indonesia

Suggested Citation:

King, Michael and Rafay, Abdul, Corruption and the Resource Curse: The Case of Timor-Leste (September 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4922488
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
327
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies