Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Ambiguity in India: A Breeding Ground for Crypto Criminals

Posted: 13 Sep 2024

Sachin Shah

Tata Consultancy Services (TCS)

Abdul Rafay

University of Management & Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Date Written: August 31, 2023

Abstract

Cryptocurrencies have sparked global transformations in digital technology and financial services, leading to deliberations on regulatory frameworks. India is cautiously working towards regulatory clarity and legalizing Cryptocurrency usage, as it becomes the country with the most cryptocurrency users. The Indian regulatory body is vigilant, monitoring progress and warning the public about associated risks. Despite regulatory efforts, India has seen a worrisome rise in cyber-frauds, cryptocurrency crimes, and money laundering involving digital currencies. This chapter focuses on the regulatory ambiguity in India, which inadvertently fosters an environment for crypto criminals. Through case studies, it highlights the gravity of the situation and the urgent need for legislative action to combat scams and money laundering. The author concludes optimistically, expecting India to establish robust crypto regulations to effectively address these challenges.

Keywords: DeFi, NFT, Money Laundering, Cryptocurrency, Virtual currency, Blockchain, Reserve Bank of India

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Shah, Sachin and Rafay, Abdul, Regulatory Ambiguity in India: A Breeding Ground for Crypto Criminals (August 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4922490
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
325
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies