Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consumer Risk Perception Towards Cybercrimes and E-Commerce: The Case of Malaysia

Posted: 14 Aug 2024

Hui Nee Au Yong

Tunku Abdul Rahman University (UTAR)

Kuah Yoke Chin

Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman

Chooi Yi Wei

Tunku Abdul Rahman University (UTAR) - Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman

Abdul Rafay

University of Management & Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Date Written: September 30, 2023

Abstract

The concept of this chapter is to review the literature for a research gap on risk perception among online consumers and the intention for online purchases in Malaysia. Online platforms and digital payments make online shopping easier. During the year 2020 - 2021, online shopping had become increasingly active with the spike of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Online users who share their personal information online are most likely getting into the scammer's trap. Malaysia executed the national cyber security policy to defend the country's critical national information infrastructure. Financial awareness among online users plays a crucial role in fighting cybercrime. Digital guardianship should exist to prevent irresponsible parties from taking advantage. The routine activity theory has been proposed to explain the phenomenon whereby the offender makes the selection to commit a crime based on an online shopper as his target and the guardianship.

Keywords: Routine Activity Theory (RAT), Movement Control Order (MCO), Cybersecurity, Digital guardianship, Internet Fraud

Suggested Citation:

Au Yong, Hui Nee and Yoke Chin, Kuah and Wei, Chooi Yi and Rafay, Abdul, Consumer Risk Perception Towards Cybercrimes and E-Commerce: The Case of Malaysia (September 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4922486
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
333
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies