Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neural Networks for Managerial Fraud Detection in Financial Statements: Artifacts and Pitfalls

34 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2024

Salem Lotfi Boumediene

University of Illinois Springfield

Salma Ben Moussa

Government of the United States of America - Naval Postgraduate School

Abstract

Using a set of financial ratios produced by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), this study introduces a new approach called “Fraud HONN” (FHONN), a higher-order neural network to improve neural networks’ ability to detect managerial fraud in financial statements. FHONN performance is compared to a simple multilayer perceptron and a deep neural network. Data augmentation is used to improve the classification performance and generalization capacity of our ANN models. Results revealed that, overall, FHONN produces better accuracy and shows consistent results for both in-sample and out-of-sample data. We provide some preliminary evidence that every ANN is different and performs in singular ways; thus, “one size [ANN] does not fit all.” The main contribution of this paper is to highlight the importance of approach selection when designing a neural network. Collectively, our findings support that ANNs work well even on small datasets and the focus should be on data quality

Keywords: Fraud detection, Managerial fraud, Artificial Intelligence, Neural Networks, Bootstrap resampling

Suggested Citation:

Boumediene, Salem Lotfi and Ben Moussa, Salma, Neural Networks for Managerial Fraud Detection in Financial Statements: Artifacts and Pitfalls. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4935139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4935139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A Abbasi , C Albrecht , A Vance , J Hansen
Metafraud: A meta-learning framework for detecting financial fraud
Mis Quarterly , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1293 - 1327 Posted: 2012
S K Albrecht , M Romney
Red-flagging management: A validation
Advances in Accounting , volume 3 , p. 323 - 333 Posted: 1986
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Fraud detection in a GAAS audit: SAS No. 99 implementation guide. AICPA practice aid series
Fraud Detection in a GAAS Audit: SAS No. 99 Implementation Guide Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
399
RANK
841,369
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies