Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identification of Retail Buyer-Supplier Collusion Fraud Using Synthetic Controls and Automatic Change Point Detection

21 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2024

Tim Bäßler

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Date Written: August 26, 2024

Abstract

This paper introduces a novel approach to identifying fraudulent preferential treatment of suppliers within a procurement setting. Utilizing the Synthetic Control Method (SCM) and the Pruned Exact Linear Time (PELT) algorithm, we analyze data from a realworld fraud case at a large multinational retailer to detect irregularities in purchase prices, sales prices, and margins. Our method, predicated on initial suspicion, serves as a forensic tool during fraud investigations. We explore various fraud scenarios such as sporadic purchase price spikes and inconsistent sales prices that could indicate corrupt practices.

Keywords: Fraud Identification, Interrupted Time Series Analysis, Synthetic Control Method

Suggested Citation:

Bäßler, Tim and Eulerich, Marc, Identification of Retail Buyer-Supplier Collusion Fraud Using Synthetic Controls and Automatic Change Point Detection (August 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4936968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4936968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of California's tobacco control program
Journal of the American statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Comparative politics and the synthetic control method
American Journal of Political Science , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2015
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The economic costs of conflict: A case study of the Basque Country
American economic review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies