Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Management and Single Treasury Account

13 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: October 12, 2022

Abstract

Cash management lies at the heart of all financial management activities since it is the primary indicator of the efficiency of economic management. However, managing cash effectively must be associated with compliance with the relevant rules and practices. The Nigerian government's finance ministry operation has continued to change regarding the cash management function. The promulgation of the Financial Regulation (FR) of 1958 aimed at harmonizing the treasury functions of the Nigerian government under one treasury department made provisions regarding the responsibility of the accountant general in the area of cash management and control.

The essence of financial management in public services is to ensure optimal service delivery objectives and Vision 20:2020 goals, which lie in effective service implementation. It is also expected to develop effective competition in production, innovation and technological development. Supposed financial management in low prices certified Accountants' Institute of Certified Public Accountants (1979). Poor financing of industrial organizations in a country is an economic barrier to development. Once again, public finances in Nigeria are having severe crises theoretically and in practice to an extent, the Nigeria system could project cash deficit governments budgeting, the federal as a level of the government would result in supplement borrowing to part of the excess expenditure the desired and dire crude and simple terms this may involve borrowing at low rate of interest outside the country to launch the expected foreign exchange earning, exhibitive solely from the export of the goods and services from this campaign, the economic social and economics reason it is necessitated to ensure the compulsory installment payment of money into the public capitalized account at the close of every working day by all the government offices in Nigeria and the remittance of effects into the particular daily collection account often to as federal government account domiciled with the Central Bank of Nigeria as duty as an affordable price to avoid the undesirable fundraising at high interest or in suffering the embarrassment of non fulfillment of the exchange commitments to international creditors and donors to use series to their financial dataset of transparence, which is in line with International Public Sector accounting standards (IPSAS). Transfer of such entry shall be made in the approved appropriations recorded in three ledgers cells, namely: continues expenditure, development administration and statutory or internally generated revenue account apparent to the commercial banking system through the presence of the accountant general of the Federation represented by the director of cash management every month a resource monitoring of budget and cash curtailment meeting co-chaired by the accountant – general financial affairs of the ministry of finance.

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Cash Management and Single Treasury Account (October 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4950773 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4950773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
506
RANK
741,762
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies