Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Accounting and Other Doping Games

Zurich IEER Working Paper No. 175

23 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2005

Aleksander Berentsen

University of Basel - Faculty of Business and Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Yvan Lengwiler

University of Basel - Faculty of Business and Economics (WWZ)

Date Written: December 2003

Abstract

From a game theoretic point of view, fraudulent accounting to embellish the financial status of a firm and the use of drugs to enhance performance in sports are very similar. We study the replicator dynamics of both applications within the same model. We allow for heterogenous populations, such as highly talented versus more mediocre athletes, or high quality managers versus less able colleagues. Interestingly, for some parameters, the replicator dynamics is characterized by cycles. Thus, we may see cycles of doping and clean sport, and cycles of fraudulent and honest accounting. Moreover, in some cases, high ability players are more likely to commit fraud than low ability types.

Keywords: replicator dynamics, cheating, doping, fraudulent accounting

JEL Classification: C7, M4

Suggested Citation:

Berentsen, Aleksander and Lengwiler, Yvan, Fraudulent Accounting and Other Doping Games (December 2003). Zurich IEER Working Paper No. 175, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=495384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.495384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
A Berentsen
The economics of doping
European Journal of Political Economy , volume 18 , p. 109 - 127 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Aleksander Berentsen , Esther Brügger , Simon Lörtscher
On Cheating and Whistle-Blowing
Zurich IEER Working Paper No. 153 Pages: 42 Posted: 2 Sep 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J K Hofbauer , Sigmund
Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Kandori , G Mailath , And R Rob
Learning, mutation, and long-run equilibria in games
Econometrica , volume 61 , p. 29 - 56 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,260
RANK
189,693
29 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Rank-Order Tournaments as Optimum Labor Contracts

By Edward P. Lazear and Sherwin Rosen

Performance Pay and Productivity

By Edward P. Lazear

Wage Levels and Method of Pay

By Charles Brown

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies