Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Paradigm Shift in the Relationship Between the Dollar and Oil Prices Over the Past Decade

16 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: September 16, 2024

Abstract

Over the past several decades, the dollar has uniquely developed the modern world economy. Economists have much to say about why this is so and its implications. The problem is that economists have had a stricter puzzle when analysing the impact on the U.S. economy. Most studies show a short-term decline in the dollar value of less than 1 per cent for a 10 per cent rise in the relative oil price. Virtually none of this work considers what happens in the long run. We show how the long-run results can be understood straightforwardly. They also point to a broader assessment of the dollar's role in the world economy. However, the most intriguing aspect is the new evidence on dollar-oil dynamics that we present. This evidence is the shift over the past decade from a short- to a long-run effect of oil on the dollar. Not only does this long-run effect occur, but it occurs after three years, a finding that should pique our audience's interest.

The implications of this dollar-oil shift are far-reaching. Firstly, the traditional short-run channel from dollar depreciation to inflation may have disappeared with the recent dollar strengthening. This may make it easier for policymakers to ignore this channel. Second, the long-run shift is consistent with a structural break in relatively easy access by oil exporters to physical dollar assets. This shift may have significant ramifications for the future relative importance of the euro and the dollar's role as the world's leading anchor currency. We provide evidence of the substantial increase over the past decade in the number of 'petro-dollar' assets in countries outside the United States, underscoring the global impact of these shifts.

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, The Paradigm Shift in the Relationship Between the Dollar and Oil Prices Over the Past Decade (September 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4957676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4957676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
290
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies