Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing the Attitude and Behavioral Intention of Auditors for Use of Forensic Accounting Services: A Study on Banking Industry of Pakistan

32 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2024

Syed Ali Raza Rizvi

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: September 18, 2024

Abstract

The increase in fraud action against financial reports makes many people uneasy and considering to use Forensic Accounting Services (FAS) to prevent and detect fraud. The Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA), formulated by Fishbein and Ajzen, is pivotal in elucidating the determinants of specific professional behaviors, especially in sectors where compliance and ethical standards are strictly monitored like auditing. This study aimed to analyze the factors affecting the Behavioral Intention of Auditors to Use Forensic Accounting Services in the Banking Industry of Pakistan with the mediating effect of Attitude of the Auditors in the Banking Industry. This research used the survey method through a questionnaire and primary data, which was obtained from the population of heads of division and internal auditor staff in public and private banks operating in Karachi using the Snowball Sampling Technique. The researcher has used Smart PLS for statistical testing. Results of the study have found that among the variables, i.e., The Perceived Benefits do not affect the Attitudes towards Forensic Accounting Services but it directly affects the behavioral intention, although the Perceived Risk affects the attitude and behavioral intention of the auditors. Additionally, the study also finds that the other factors Government Pressure, Internal Control Systems, Stakeholder Pressure, and Time budget Pressure affect the attitude of auditors towards FAS as well as make the direct relationship with the behavioral Intention to use Forensic Accounting Services. This research, conducted within the banking sector of Pakistan, offers several practical implications for managers and policymakers aiming to enhance the adoption and effective use of forensic accounting services, understanding the dynamics between attitudes towards forensic accounting services and behavioral intentions to use these services.

Keywords: Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA), Forensic Accounting Services (FAS), Fraud Detection, Perceived Benefits of FAS, Perceived Risks of FAS, Government Pressure, Internal Control Systems, Stakeholder Pressure, Time Budget Pressure

Suggested Citation:

Rizvi, Syed Ali Raza and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, Factors Influencing the Attitude and Behavioral Intention of Auditors for Use of Forensic Accounting Services: A Study on Banking Industry of Pakistan (September 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4959635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4959635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
S Ahmad , R Kamaruddin
Understanding Forensic Accounting Practices: A Case Study of Pakistan's Banking Sector
International Journal of Economics, Finance and Management Sciences , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 82 - 90 Posted: 2021
Z Abdul-Baki
The role of accounting in conflicts resolution
Journal of Forensic Accounting Research , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 39 Posted: 2019
I S Acquah , J Robertson , C M Stefaniak
The impact of auditing internal controls and management on business performance
Journal of Business & Financial Affairs , volume 8 , issue 2 Posted: 2019
N Ahmad , S M Zabri
Time management and its impact on audit quality in the Pakistani context
Journal of Quality and Technology Management , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 94 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
522
RANK
605,468
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies