Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Forensic Auditing on Organizational Performance in Nigeria: Insights from Nigeria Breweries Plc (2013-2023)

13 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2024

Boniface Umoh E.

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 31, 2024

Abstract

These occurrences provide valuable insights into how forensic auditing may have aided companies in addressing fraud issues, managing complex financial challenges, and coping with the pandemic's economic fallout. The study aimed to achieve several objectives: to evaluate the effect of auditors' independence on return on assets (ROA) at Nigeria Breweries Plc, to assess how the size of auditors impacts ROA, and to investigate the relationship between auditors' remuneration and ROA. Utilizing an ex-post facto research design, the research relied on secondary data sourced from the annual reports and financial statements of Nigeria Breweries Plc during the specified period. The analysis employed the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression technique using e-views 10 statistical software to test the formulated hypotheses. The results revealed that auditors' independence does not have a significant effect on ROA at Nigeria Breweries Plc, whereas auditors' size does have a meaningful impact. Conversely, auditors' remuneration showed no significant correlation with ROA. Based on these results, the study recommends that Nigeria Breweries Plc strengthen its internal control systems and enhance supervisory measures alongside external auditing, as auditors' independence seems to have little influence on ROA. This strategy will improve the effectiveness of fraud detection and prevention within the organization.

Keywords: Forensic Auditing, Auditors' Independence, Size, Remuneration and Organisational performanc

Funder Statement

self

Suggested Citation:

Umoh E., Boniface, The Effect of Forensic Auditing on Organizational Performance in Nigeria: Insights from Nigeria Breweries Plc (2013-2023) (July 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4968727 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4968727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
K Adesina , O Erin , O Ajetunmobi , S Iiogbo , O &asiriuwa
Does forensic audit influence fraud control? Evidence from Nigerian deposit money banks. Bank and Banks Systems , volume 15 , p. 215 - 229 Posted: 2020
C O Akenbor , U Ironkwe
Forensic auditing techniques and fraudulent practices of public institutions in Nigeria
Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 451 - 459 Posted: 2014
Y A Almajali , A S Alamro , Z Y Al-Soub
Factors affecting the financial performance of Jordanian insurance companies listed at Amman Stock Exchange
Journal of Management Research , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 226 - 289 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
381,025
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies