Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The relation between Auditors and Auditees: how does the Regulator affect that relation under SOX?

22 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2024

Jan Bouwens

Amsterdam Business School

Date Written: September 29, 2024

Abstract

Since 2004 firms in the USA are required to issue a report discussing the state of their internal controls. In addition the law requires that the external auditor attests the state of the internal controls. I take the introduction of this legislation and the accompanying audit standards as a reference point of how regulators may influence the relation between auditors and auditees. It appears that a detailed description by the regulator of the work to be done to I order to attest the internal controls enhances the assurance auditors provide to financial statements and internal controls. I also conclude that regulators may want to encourage that audit engagements are not only de jure determined by the audit committee, but rather that they assume real authority over that engagement.

Keywords: statement on internal controls, Statement IC firm vs. auditor, SOX, AS2 and AS5

Suggested Citation:

Bouwens, Jan, The relation between Auditors and Auditees: how does the Regulator affect that relation under SOX? (September 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971123 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Acito , C Hogan , A Imdieke
Integrated Auditing Standards and Financial Reporting Quality. Working paper Posted: 2015
H D W Ashbaugh-Skaife , W R Collins , Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
RANK
914,805
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies