Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting and Untraceable Financial Crime

Journal of Financial Crime, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFC-01-2024-0033 [undefined]

34 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2024

Tiago Cardão-Pito

ISEG, Universidade de Lisboa

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

This study’s purpose is to inquire about the structural possibility of “fair value” accounting being used to commit and conceal financial crimes such as fraud, theft, money laundering, tax evasion, and corruption. 

This study builds on the embezzler test, a recently developed test that examines whether normative architectures are sufficiently well equipped to cope with illicit financial flows that cross the boundaries of organizations and countries. This test was applied to both the entire “fair value” system and the “fair value” accounting that have been gradually introduced in modified historical cost accounting systems. “Fair value” accounting is formulated in such a manner that it does not provide a means of detecting and penalizing potential criminals. Therefore, owing to the malfunctioning of its normative architecture, evidence of criminal wrongdoing that could be associated with “fair value” accounting systems is difficult to find because of the deprivation of mechanisms for detection and subsequent disciplining. Indeed, rather than reduce financial crime, “fair value” accounting reduces the possibility of finding criminal evidence. Thus, this study presents a new research argument against “fair value” accounting systems.

A new research field can explore how “fair value” accounting allows financial crimes such as fraud, theft, money laundering, tax evasion, and corruption to remain undetected and unpunished. Unless private accounting standard setters as IASB and FASB can solve this fundamental problem regarding financial crime detection and penalizing, the case can be made for the phasing out of “fair value” accounting systems. The return of accounting norms to the government sphere may be a necessary pathway. This can only happen if policymakers produce necessary legislation.

Keywords: embezzler test, accounting regulations, financial crime, “fair value” accounting, historical cost accounting, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)

Funder Statement

The author acknowledges support from the ADVANCE Research Centre at ISEG, Universidade de Lisboa [University of Lisbon], and the Portuguese National Funding Agency for Science, Research and Technology, under Project UIDB/04521/2020.

Suggested Citation:

Cardão-Pito, Tiago, Fair Value Accounting and Untraceable Financial Crime (September 01, 2024). Journal of Financial Crime, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFC-01-2024-0033 [undefined], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971956 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971956
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
RANK
487,089
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies