Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of the Common Framework on Debt Servicing in Low-Income the United Nations and World Health Organization in Superseding State Sovereignty on Health

14 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: October 08, 2024

Abstract

The evolution of the complex interrelationship between state sovereignty and global health governance has been calling for a redefinition of international organisations' individual and collective roles in health matters. In this sense, the United Nations and especially the World Health Organization have, in recent years, started playing an increasing role in international health matters. They have put states under pressure to cede sure of their sovereign powers to global-level institutions. Furthermore, other international organisations and bodies and non-governmental organisations are increasingly affecting local and national health policies. This essay will demonstrate that issues in global health cannot be effectively met with a protectionist, self-oriented, and isolationist foreign policy attitude and require cooperation and a policy of openness that transcends traditional international jurisprudence. Indeed, health threats bear no respect for state borders and call for developing a global strategy to address such issues based on solidarity and equity for all states. The happenings of September 11 suggested this necessity not only for health crises but also for obtaining a uniform approach to related issues, such as medical research and intellectual property rights.

Therefore, an increasing body of literature in recent years has explored the role played by Borie in developing health-related policy within the UN framework and creating various forms of collaborative approaches between states, revealing the development of alternative diplomatic practices for the negotiation of international health agreements. Public health mobility and health policy, according to a narrative case study describing the development of the international health regulations and the opinion of experts from the Argentine Ministry of Health, a more democratic and broadly collaborative effort through a revision of the international health regulations could have led to a higher degree of effectiveness in capacity building and values and principles being incorporated in the U.S. At the international level, since the 19th century, we have seen the flourishing of discussions and legal commitments primarily focused on the prevention of the international spread of threats to public health. In 2005, the latest version of the international health regulations was approved, clearly introducing a broad conceptual basis of what can be defined as global public health, as a legal commitment that states should take to develop the public health front within their borders, i.e., the improvement of public health measures in the country, and international collaboration in the case, first, of a cross-border spread of disease, and second, of a cross-border appreciation of the efficacy of a public health response such as quarantine.

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Impact of the Common Framework on Debt Servicing in Low-Income the United Nations and World Health Organization in Superseding State Sovereignty on Health (October 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4980235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4980235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
204
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies