Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensics Intelligence in International Wildlife Trade Investigations

13 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: October 08, 2024

Abstract

Wildlife crime represents some of the most destructive threats to biodiversity in the world, involving a range of criminal activities impacting the entire ecosystem. Wildlife crime encompasses various activities, including illegal logging, e-waste trafficking, illegal fisheries, and marine littering. However, wildlife trade and poaching are by far the most common and well-documented examples, exacerbated by the climate crisis. Ranging from ivory and rhino horn to caviar and exotic pets, the illegal trade in endangered wildlife generates vast profits for traffickers, inflicting ecological, economic, and social damages in every corner of the world. Despite the long list of potential wildlife crime targets, industrial poaching is the most common and the most destructive to Africa’s biodiversity. In the last decade, vast quantities of African ivory, rhino horn, and pangolin have been smuggled from the continent, and illegal hunters have consumed a myriad of others.

But the criminal activity doesn’t stop there. Across the globe, the illegal wildlife trade is thriving. East Asia is a central market for African ivory, rhino horn, and pangolin and for illicit pets from Africa, South America, and the Asia-Pacific. Terra-concha jewels are being sold in North America and Europe, Asian species are in demand almost everywhere, and illicit hornbill products are particularly wanted in Europe. As much of this illegal trade crosses international borders, we must respond as conservationists and the broader global community. To stop the criminal networks involved and save species from trafficking routes, we need strong legislation, robust enforcement, and good collaboration and compliance. Wildlife crime is international, and so is the required action to tackle it. As networks, wildlife crime can be found in nearly every country in the world and can violate a country’s laws and international agreements.

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Forensics Intelligence in International Wildlife Trade Investigations (October 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4980295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4980295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
230
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Macroeconomic Issues in Developing Economies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies