Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consumer Bankruptcy Audits

84 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2024

Fabian Nagel

Stanford University

Date Written: October 12, 2024

Abstract

Bankruptcy insures consumers against large and unexpected wealth shocks. However, debtors may abuse this insurance. Indeed, close to 20% of consumer bankruptcy filings contain at least one material misstatement. I exploit the conditionally random assignment of audits to estimate the effect of mandatory audits on debt forgiveness in consumer bankruptcy. I find that audits reduce debt forgiveness, but only when alternative oversight is low (Chapter 7). Audits come at the cost of increased case complexity for filers, deteriorating the long-run financial health of unsophisticated filers. Generally, audits drive a reallocation of debt relief from non-compliers and misreporters to truthful filers. Aggregate calculations show that the reduction in debt forgiveness due to misstatements and deterrence exceeds the direct cost of increasing the audit rate when oversight is low. Reductions in debt relief due to deterrence exceed reductions due to identified misstatements twofold.

Keywords: Consumer Credit, Consumer Bankruptcy, Audits

Suggested Citation:

Nagel, Fabian, Consumer Bankruptcy Audits (October 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4991384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4991384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Abadie , J Spiess
Robust post-matching inference
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 117 , issue 538 , p. 983 - 995 Posted: 2022
J Abeler , D Nosenzo , C Raymond
Preferences for truth-telling
Econometrica , volume 87 , issue 4 , p. 1115 - 1153 Posted: 2019
M Adelino , M A Ferreira , M Oliveira
The heterogeneous effects of household debt relief Posted: 2024
A Advani , W Elming , J Shaw
The dynamic effects of tax audits
Review of Economics and Statistics , p. 1 - 45 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
807
RANK
420,501
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Household Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies