Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why You Cannot Tread Water When Inflation Is High

81 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2024

Victor Umoren

University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus

Date Written: September 22, 2023

Abstract

This study examined the impacts inflation rate has on different macroeconomic variables. The research objectives are to; evaluate the impact of productivity of Nigeria on high inflation; identify the effects of macroeconomic variables on inflation; ascertain the effect increase in exchange rate has on inflation; and investigate if interest rates affect inflation in Nigeria. The study used ex-post facto design method. The researcher made use of secondary data in the work. The data collected in the course of the word will be presented in a tabular form. The data was analyzed based on simple percentages, rounded up to 2 decimal places. However, for the purpose of testing the hypothesis the t-test statistics was used. The research work also made the following major findings: that there is relationship between inflation rate and various macroeconomic variables such as interest rate, exchange rate in Nigeria. The study concludes that during high inflation various stakeholders in the economy are affected, from individuals, corporate firms to government institutions. The researcher recommends that strict monetary policy regimes should be drafted and executed, which will help curb the constant spike in inflation rate.

Suggested Citation:

Umoren, Victor, Why You Cannot Tread Water When Inflation Is High (September 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4996640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4996640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
S Dressler
A long-run, short-run, and politico-economic analysis of the welfare costs of inflation
Journal of Macroeconomics , volume 47 , p. 255 - 269 Posted: 2016
Annual summary of collected tax in Nigeria Posted: 2018
Milton Friedman
The Optimum Quantity of Money and Other Essays Posted: 1969
Aaron O'neill
Global Inflation Rates from 2000 to 2028 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies