Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Functions and Fraud Prevention and Detection in Financial Institutions: An Analytical Study of Access Bank Plc (2017-2022) Boniface, Umoh E

14 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Boniface Umoh E.

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

Date Written: January 05, 2024

Abstract

This study was conducted with a focus on Access Bank Plc, 2017-2022, to examine the roles of internal audit and fraud prevention and detection in financial institutions. The study's specific objectives were to ascertain how Access Bank Plc's bad debt recovery were impacted by auditor compensation, audit committee reports, and audit size. The ex-post factor research design was employed in the study. Secondary data, which included information from Access Bank Plc's 2017-2022 annual report, was used to source pertinent information. This time frame allows for a thorough evaluation of Access Bank's internal auditing practices and their effectiveness in spotting and preventing fraud in a banking environment that is changing all the time. It also makes it possible to examine the long-term effects of the audit methods. Using e-views 10, the Ordinary Least Square (OLS) Regression Analysis was used to assess the hypotheses. According to the study, Access Bank Plc's bad debt recovery are not significantly impacted by auditor remuneration (AUR), audit committee reports (ACR), or audit size (AUS). It comes to the conclusion that throughout the research period (2017-2022), internal audit functions had no discernible effect on Access Bank Plc's ability to bad debt recovery. To improve its efforts to avoid fraud, it recommends Access Bank Plc to invest in cutting-edge fraud detection technology and improve its internal control systems. In order to strengthen supervision, the bank should also reassess the performance of its audit committees and auditors by giving them greater resources and training. This can greatly improve the bank's integrity and financial security.

Keywords: Internal audit functions, auditor remuneration, audit committee reports, audit size and bad debts recovered

Funder Statement

self

Suggested Citation:

Umoh E., Boniface, Internal Audit Functions and Fraud Prevention and Detection in Financial Institutions: An Analytical Study of Access Bank Plc (2017-2022) Boniface, Umoh E (January 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5007067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5007067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
P O Adugbe
Internal audit and fraud prevention in Nigeria banking industry
International Journal of Business and Social Science (IJBSS) , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 151 Posted: 2022
O C Agu , B C Okoli
Credit management and bad debt in Nigeria commercial banksimplication for development
Journal of Humanities and Social Science , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 47 - 56 Posted: 2013
S A Akinteye , D Ochei , M Mokube , A Vutumu
Assessing the effectiveness of internal audit in detecting and preventing fraudulent activities in Nigerian banks
Nigerian Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 34 Posted: 2023
M Aliyu , A U Musa , P Zachariah
Impact of audit quality on earnings management of listed deposit money banks in Nigeria
Journal of Accounting and Financial Management , volume 1 , issue 8 , p. 31 - 46 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
263,404
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Welfare Economics & Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies