Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inheriting versus Developing Data Analytic Tests and Auditors' Professional Skepticism

55 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 28 Mar 2025

Xiaoxing Li

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Anna Gold

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Justin Leiby

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: March 28, 2025

Abstract

As the use of audit data analytic tests (ADA) becomes increasingly established in practice, auditors will often confront situations in which they inherit ADA developed by others, as opposed to developing the ADA themselves. Despite the potential benefits of ADA, inheriting ADA could decrease auditors’ skeptical actions by diminishing their psychological ownership of the ADA. In an experiment where an ADA identifies a fraud red flag, we find that auditors who inherited the ADA are less likely to exercise skeptical actions than those who were personally involved in ADA development. We then provide evidence that informing auditors who inherit an ADA about the test development activities (e.g., a brief memorandum documenting the ADA’s development) mitigates the negative effect of inheriting the ADA. Evidence from mediation analyses suggests that these effects are driven by decreased psychological ownership when auditors inherit the ADA.


Keywords: G34, M40, M41, M42 audit data analytics, fraud red flag, professional skepticism, psychological ownership, test development

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xiaoxing and Brazel, Joseph F. and Gold, Anna and Leiby, Justin, Inheriting versus Developing Data Analytic Tests and Auditors' Professional Skepticism (March 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5009337 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5009337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
M G Alles
Drivers of the Use and Facilitators and Obstacles of the Evolution of Big Data by the Audit Profession
Accounting horizons , volume 29 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
M Alles , G L Gray
Incorporating Big Data in Audits: Identifying Inhibitors and A Research Agenda to Address Those Inhibitors
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 22 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2016
AICPA, 2015 AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (AICPA). Guide to Data Analytics Posted: 2017
S B Anderson , J L Hobson; , M E Peecher
The Joint Effects of Rich Data Visualization and Audit Procedure Categorization on Auditor Judgment Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
885
RANK
213,801
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies