Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Creative Accounting on Shareholders' Wealth in Nigerian Banks: An Analytical Study

15 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Boniface Umoh E.

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

Azuka Tina Nwobodo

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

Date Written: April 04, 2024

Abstract

This paper analyzed the impact of creative accounting on shareholders' wealth in Nigerian banks. The study's specific objectives were to assess the effects of return on equity, inventory manipulation, and return on assets on earnings per share in Nigerian banks. An ex-post facto research design was employed, using secondary data collected from the annual reports and financial statements of a selected bank. First Bank of Nigeria Plc, with its long operational history, was selected as a case study due to its prominence as one of the largest financial institutions in the country. This makes it an ideal subject for understanding how creative accounting practices influence shareholder wealth in a significant Nigerian bank. The period of 2013-2022 was chosen, as it covers a critical decade marked by substantial changes in the Nigerian banking sector, such as currency devaluations, economic recessions, and regulatory reforms. To analyze the data, the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression technique was used via E-Views 9 software. Results showed that return on equity, inventory manipulation, and return on assets had no significant impact on earnings per share in Nigerian banks, with p-values of 0.77, 0.96, and 0.79 (p > 0.05). The study concludes that creative accounting does not significantly affect shareholders' wealth in Nigerian banks. It recommends enhancing corporate governance in Nigerian banks for long-term financial stability, increasing transparency to protect shareholders value, and strengthening regulatory oversight to prevent creative accounting practices.

Keywords: creative accounting, return on equity, inventory manipulation, return on assets, earnings per share

Declaration of Interest

we declare the work is original and has no financial relationship with any individuals or organization(s)

Funder Statement

fund by the authors

Suggested Citation:

Umoh E., Boniface and Tina Nwobodo, Azuka, The Impact of Creative Accounting on Shareholders' Wealth in Nigerian Banks: An Analytical Study (April 04, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5028134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
I A Abed , H Nazimah , H Hossam , Nidal , M Al-Ramahi , A Mostafa
The moderating effects of corporate social responsibility on the relationship between creative accounting determinants and financial reporting quality
Sustainability , volume 14 Posted: 2022
E Adamikova , C Tatiana
Creative accounting and the possibility of its detection in the evaluation of the company by expert
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 14 , issue 12 , p. 327 - 339 Posted: 2021
A Adaramola , O Onyerinde
The relationship between financial accounting, auditing, and market values of quoted firms in Nigeria
Global Journal of Contemporary Research in Accounting, Auditing and Business Ethics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 39 Posted: 2014
J A Adetoso , O F Ajiga
Creative accounting practices among Nigerian listed commercial banks: Curtailing effect of IFRS adoption
An International Peer-reviewed Journal , issue 54 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
759
RANK
362,694
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies