Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Settlement of Rio Tinto's “Marketing Hub” Transfer Pricing Dispute the Shape of Things to Come?

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 1

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Michael Butler

Independent

L. Wang

Independent

K. Chen

Independent

Abstract

In July 2022 the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) and Rio Tinto Ltd (Rio Tinto) announced they had reached a settlement that brought to an end all tax disputes, including a long-standing dispute in relation to Rio Tinto’s Singapore “marketing hub”. The settlement involved payment of almost AUD 1 billion by Rio Tinto to the ATO. That followed a settlement in late 2018 between the ATO and BHP Billiton Ltd concerning BHP’s Singapore marketing hub and requiring the payment of AUD 529 million by BHP. The settlements confirm that the ATO is continuing to protect the Australian tax base by making sure taxpayers comply with their international transfer pricing obligations. The authors examine the Rio Tinto and BHP settlements and the tax treatment of marketing hubs, and make a number of observations on the implications of the settlements for transfer pricing in Australia.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1hbgjws

Keywords: dispute resolution, transfer pricing, marketing intangibles, domestic tax law, case law

Suggested Citation:

Butler, Michael and Wang, L. and Chen, K., Is the Settlement of Rio Tinto's “Marketing Hub” Transfer Pricing Dispute the Shape of Things to Come?. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1hbgjws
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
374
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies