Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study of Fraud Examination Education in Preparing Accounting Students to Combat Fraud: Evidence from COVID-19

Posted: 29 Jan 2025

Daniel Hsiao

Independent

Ali Saeedi

University of Minnesota

Liz Wang

West Chester University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

This study aims to assess the ability of accounting students to identify fraud symptoms, analyze prevention and detection controls, and determine legal consequences during the COVID-19 pandemic. The research data were collected from an online discussion forum completed by accounting students in the “Fraud Examination” course at a public university in the United States. Adapting to the framework of experiential learning theory, we assessed students’ performance using a rubric based on five learning objectives over three semesters from Spring 2020 to Spring 2021. The results indicate that most of the students, regardless of the semester, demonstrated proficiency in applying fraud examination concepts and performing fraud analyses in the pandemic setting, meeting the expected learning objectives.

Suggested Citation:

Hsiao, Daniel and Saeedi, Ali and Wang, Liz, An Exploratory Study of Fraud Examination Education in Preparing Accounting Students to Combat Fraud: Evidence from COVID-19 (July 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5045414
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
200
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies