Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Frankenstein’s Implant: Is Stryker Due For a Monstrous Periodic Adjustment?

62 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Date Written: October 21, 2024

Abstract

This paper reviews Stryker Corporation’s transfer pricing cost sharing arrangement based on forensic economic analysis of public information and U.S. tax regulations, including U.S. and foreign financial reporting, company presentations and disclosures, and other published sources. This report finds that Stryker Corporation appears to have violated various U.S. tax codes and the U.S. international tax and transfer pricing regulations beginning in 2012 to the present, in ways that caused its transfer pricing cost sharing arrangement with its foreign affiliates to have violated the Commensurate with Income statute of Internal Revenue Code, Section 482, and the periodic adjustment regulation of Section 1.482-7(i)(6). This appears to make its foreign pretax income reported in Ireland and other foreign locations taxable in the U.S. as a result of a periodic adjustment and possibly as effectively connected income. However, the Internal Revenue Service has never to date enforced the cost sharing periodic adjustment regulations at any taxpayer. The identified periodic adjustment is not limited by any statute of limitations as long as Stryker Corporation continues to use the intangible assets that were covered by its cost sharing arrangement. This tax risk has not to the author’s knowledge been reflected in its SEC filings or reserves for uncertain tax positions reported in its annul Form 10-K filings. The amount that this report estimates Stryker could owe the IRS is approximately $8 billion.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Auditing, Forensic Economics, Tax Compliance, Tax Enforcement, Corporate Tax

JEL Classification: F23, H26, H32, H83, K34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L, Frankenstein’s Implant: Is Stryker Due For a Monstrous Periodic Adjustment? (October 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5046428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5046428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
L Stephen , ; Curtis , David G Curtis , ; Chamberlain , Chamberlain Curtis
Apple's Cost-Sharing Arrangement: Frankenstein's Monster, Part 2
Tax Notes Federal Posted: 1049-08-23
Curtis
eBay's Cost-Sharing Arrangement: Frankenstein's Progeny
Tax Notes Federal Posted: 2022-06-13
; Curtis , Reuven S Curtis , Avi-Yonah ; Avi-Yonah , Curtis Chamberlain , Jeffery M Kadet
  26 None of the current 47 active campaigns address transfer pricing, which is often cited as the single largest source of corporate tax avoidance and evasion. There are also 33 no-longer-active campaigns, and only one of them was for a transfer pricing issue -the inbound distributor campaign
Tax Notes Federal Posted: 1297
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
RANK
649,230
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies