Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Equity Investments Privately Held By Liquidated Or Divested Investor In Malawian Banking Industry -Case Study Of Mybucks Malawi Limited

15 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 01, 2022

Abstract

Bankrupted investors are negatively perceived in the banking industry in view of the enormous powers they possess to shape the operating philosophy of the investee especially in matters of risk appetite, growth ambition and other dimensions. It is therefore not surprising that that banking regulators develop directives to remove such investors to limit the contagion risks in the banking industry whose ripple effects could be felt across the entire economic system. The guardrail approach is to provide mechanisms of limiting significant shareholding to one investor. This study has however found out that Malawian banking and financial laws have provisions to limit significant shareholding to particular individual or entity but that is not followed in the real world whenever there is acquisition thereby exposing the economy to significant potential risks. Results of this study can provide invaluable lessons for policy directions in Malawi.

Keywords: Transaction Review Liquidated, Divested, Investor, Bank, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Examining Equity Investments Privately Held By Liquidated Or Divested Investor In Malawian Banking Industry -Case Study Of Mybucks Malawi Limited (October 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Orama Chiphwanya
New Finance Bank issues K14bn Bond
The Nation Online Posted: 2010
Financial Services Act (Capital Adequacy Directive Posted: 2018
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
20 Year review of acquisitions, mergers, restructurings and disposals in Malawian Commercial Banking Industry
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2021
Mwayi Mkandawire
MyBucks declared bankrupt
Malawi , volume 24 Posted: 2021-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
317
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies