Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Confusion In Accounting For Intra-Group Loan Transaction Between Parent And Its Wholly Owned Subsidiary

7 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 01, 2022

Abstract

Companies within the group are often separate legal personalities and therefore able to freely transact with each other provided there is no intent to defraud the general public through financial statement fraud schemes. The group accounts produced thereof are required to eliminate all intra-group transactions in line with IFRS 3 – Business Combination and Companies Act in view of the IFRSs being embedded in the company laws. This study evaluated the parent-subsidiary loan transaction in which the parent advanced a loan to its wholly owned subsidiary specifically established to provide intra-group services. The loan was attracting interest and later both the principal and interest were converted into equity. The conclusion of this study is that interest on the intra-group was not supposed to be charged in the first place and should be reversed since the group cannot benefit from itself and furthermore, the loan should not have been there in the first place if parent had adequately funded its subsidiary.

Keywords: Transaction Analysis Intra-group, Eliminate, Transaction, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Confusion In Accounting For Intra-Group Loan Transaction Between Parent And Its Wholly Owned Subsidiary

(October 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Brian Kampanje , Phiri , Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Evaluating the Effectiveness of External Auditors for Public Limited Companies in Malawi
Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal , volume 4 , issue 23 Posted: 2012
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Probing substance over legal form in financial statements
SSRN Applied Accounting -Practitioner eJournal , volume 10 , issue 22 Posted: 2018
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Size and Extent of Financial Statement Fraud in Malawi
Forensic Accounting eJournal Posted: 2017
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Unlocking Misconception of Share Premium Accounting under Companies Act 2013 in Malawian public offerings
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , p. 71 - 88 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies