Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Dealing With Remnants Of Group Reorganizations In Malawilegal Connotations In Respect Of Malawi Companies Act 2013 And Securities Act 2010

14 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 01, 2022

Abstract

Group reorganisations in form of takeovers within the group are complicated processes and are even more complex when the stock exchange is involved. This study has identified serious flaws in the process of concluding one of such transaction in Malawi in recent times. It has emerged that there was disregard of provisions of Malawi Companies Act 2013, Securities Act 2010 and the Malawi Stock Exchange Listing Rules 2009. This appears to be attributed to reluctance by the concerned group to engage consultants and professionals in the public securities market to guide the process as there is need to pay attention to detail. The group's external auditors did not provide necessary guidance and there is need for Malawi Stock Exchange as well as Registrar of Companies to demonstrate that they have ability to scrutinise documents submitted by issuers and mete out stiff punishment for any violations.

Keywords: Practitioner's View Point Remnant, Group, Reorganizations, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Dealing With Remnants Of Group Reorganizations In Malawilegal Connotations In Respect Of Malawi Companies Act 2013 And Securities Act 2010 (October 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies