Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Undertaking Financial Statements Assertions on Acquisition of a Foreign Operation by a Malawian listed Company

24 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 01, 2022

Abstract

Financial statements assertions embedded in any given set of financial statements coupled with an unqualified audit opinion should provide assurance to the users of the financial statements regarding matters of true and fair view. Users demand even more assurances where acquisition of foreign operation is involved considering the complexity and the underlined risks in such transactions. This study has however noted significant deficiencies in the disclosures regarding the actual shareholding of the foreign operation evidenced by absence of assertions to substantiate management's claim for a given shareholding which was substantially different from the one stipulated in the cautionary statement as required by the Malawi Stock Exchange. This adverse scenario was further exacerbated by exclusion of acquisition of foreign operation in the key audit matters in the group auditor's report. It is more than likely that the financial statements were materially misstated.

Keywords: Financial, Statement, Assertions, Foreign, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Undertaking Financial Statements Assertions on Acquisition of a Foreign Operation by a Malawian listed Company (October 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050642 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Acca
Audit evidence and specific considerations from specific items
CPD Technical Article. ACCA Posted: 2015
Glenn A Bowen
Document Analysis as a Qualitative Research Method , volume 9 , p. 27 - 40 Posted: 2009
Caroline Cherry
The Auditor's Report Tests Positive for Covid-19 , volume 25 Posted: 2021
Robert G Eccles , Lanes , L Kersten , Thomas C Wilson , Teodora Tiron-Tudor , Adriana
Key Audit Matters: Influences and Relevance for Stakeholders. A Review of the Academic Literature
) Addressing Disclosures in the Audit of Financial Statements Porumbăcean , volume 11 , p. 204 - 213 Posted: 1999-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
236
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies