Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incoherent Disclosures Regarding A Malawian Business Combination Transaction In Line With IFRS 3 In Respect Of Acquisition Of Foreign Operation

5 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: August 01, 2022

Abstract

Disclosures in the financial statements whether on the face of the financial statements or in the notes provide an invaluable source of information to assist users of the financial statements attain and accomplish the objectives of the financial statements. Business combination transactions are often technical and reserved for the well trained practitioners who very often complain of little disclosures made by reporting entities. This study has identified some pitfalls in the disclosures regarding business combination by a certain Malawian bank which were incoherent with those of the industry regulator. Consequently, the bank supervision aspect was possibly undermined and the stakeholders were also short-changed. It is recommended that more training opportunities should be given to the accountants and media to improve on the disclosure aspects.

Keywords: Practitioner's View Point Disclosures, Business, Combination, IFRS 3, Foreign

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Incoherent Disclosures Regarding A Malawian Business Combination Transaction In Line With IFRS 3 In Respect Of Acquisition Of Foreign Operation (August 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
188
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies