Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Missing Acquisition Transactions In The Consolidated Statement Of Financial Position When Negative Goodwill Was Recognised In The Group Statement Of Comprehensive Income – Case Study of Malawian Bank

11 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 01, 2022

Abstract

Negative goodwill is associated with the desperation of the former owners of the acquiree to divest the investee and therefore ready to accept meagre price. The acquirer which recognised negative goodwill must ascertain that it reviewed the investment and did not identify any surprises which would otherwise require it to review the amount recognised in the statement of financial position and undertake impairment loss if so required. The consideration paid by acquirer must appear in the separate financial statements of the company as non-current asset and the consideration paid must also appear in the separate financial statement of cash flows under the investing activities while any cash acquired in the investee appear in the consolidated financial statements under the investing activities. These transactions were conspicuously missing in the acquisition studied herein and therefore the consolidated financial statements were materially misstated. This does not reflect well of the group external auditors.

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Missing Acquisition Transactions In The Consolidated Statement Of Financial Position When Negative Goodwill Was Recognised In The Group Statement Of Comprehensive Income – Case Study of Malawian Bank (October 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050678
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Control controversies in Malawian Banking Industry Acquisitions
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 46
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Goodwill recognition in Malawian Banking Industry -Fair Value Approach
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , p. 47 - 78 Posted: 2021
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Is it an asset purchase or business combination?
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 56 Posted: 2022
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Review of unconsolidated subsidiaries of Malawian listed companies
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 92 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
254
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies