Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review Of Share Valuation Of A Newly Inserted Parent Company In Corporate Group Reorganization In Malawi -Testing Principles Of Separate Financial Statements Under IAS 27:13

7 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: August 01, 2022

Abstract

Share capital represents resources which have been pumped into the reporting entity in exchange for economic benefits such as dividends and capital gains. Where there is shares exchange as a result of creation of a new parent within a corporate group to take over from the reporting entity, the share capital and other equity instruments such as reserves must be exactly before and after the share exchange in full compliance of IAS 27:13. The results of this study however indicate otherwise as the new parent's share capital was based on the market value of the shares on the date of exchange. The reporting entity violated IAS27:13 and must be punished if misconduct is proven beyond reasonable doubt. This should be a wake up call for regulators and auditors.

Keywords: Type of Paper: Transaction Review Restructuring, Reserve, Share, Valuation, IAS 27

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Review Of Share Valuation Of A Newly Inserted Parent Company In Corporate Group Reorganization In Malawi -Testing Principles Of Separate Financial Statements Under IAS 27:13 (August 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Bdo Global
Topic 104 -Separate Financial Posted: 2022
Croner-I
Group Posted: 2022
Grant Thornton
IFRS View Point: Common control business combinations
Measuring the fair value of unquoted equity instruments within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
232
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies