Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Step Acquisition -Fiasco Of Concurrent Recognition Of Goodwill And Negative Goodwill: Case Study Of Peoples' Trading Centre Ltd

14 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 01, 2022

Abstract

Preparation of consolidated financial statements is a complex affair and requires experience and dedication to get it right. Accounting for step acquisition is even more complicated considering the effort required to determine the correct fair value of the previously held investment and this affects calculation of goodwill. The results of this study indicate that the acquirer recognised both negative goodwill and goodwill from a single transaction in step acquisition in total violation of IFRS 3-Business Combination as these should be mutually exclusive events. The study also uncovered unintended consequences of arbitrary use of fair value changes of investees in Other Comprehensive Income as these might have to be transferred to Statement of Profit or Loss with severe connotations which were nevertheless ignored by acquirer in this study. Constant training by both accountants and auditors is recommended to get right in step acquisition transactions.

Keywords: Transaction Analysis Step, Acquisition, Joint-venture, Subsidiary

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Step Acquisition -Fiasco Of Concurrent Recognition Of Goodwill And Negative Goodwill: Case Study Of Peoples' Trading Centre Ltd (October 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050686 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050686
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Acca
Corporate Reporting
BPP Learning Media Ltd Posted: 2012
Tilly Baker
Restatements: the costly result of an error Posted: 2019
Young Ernst
Step acquisition is separate financial statements (IAS 27), IFRS Developments Posted: 2019
M Gierusz , S Ho´nko , M Strojek-Filus , K
The Quality of Goodwill Disclosures and Impairment in the Financial Statements of Energy, Mining, and Fuel Sector Groups during the Pandemic Period-Evidence from Poland:, Energies , volume 15 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies