Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rationale For Recognition Of Share Premium Account On Wholly Owned Subsidiaries And Effect On Amount Of Goodwill On Acquisition By Acquirer In Malawian Banking Industry

11 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: August 01, 2022

Abstract

It is very obvious that shares of reputable companies are likely to attract high subscription which would prompt the demand and supply aspect thereby fetch higher prices than shares of counterparts whose issuers are not reputable or struggling financially. Prior to enactment of the Malawi Companies Act 2013, companies were permitted to have shares of par value under the 1984 Malawi Companies Act such that a share premium account would be created if the shares would be issued at a price above par value. This is no longer permissible for all companies incorporated under the new company law but all existing companies before 2013 can still issue out shares with par value. This study however evaluated the rationale for share premium accounts in wholly owned subsidiaries in Malawian banking industry and concluded that the practice made no commercial sense and was also misleading. There are potential violations which the industry regulators and Malawi Accountants Board must evaluate and mete out penalties to offenders.

Keywords: Transaction Review Share, Premium, Subsidiary, Goodwill

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Rationale For Recognition Of Share Premium Account On Wholly Owned Subsidiaries And Effect On Amount Of Goodwill On Acquisition By Acquirer In Malawian Banking Industry (August 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050623 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Montsesarrat Alvarez
Wholly-owned subsidiaries versus joint ventures: The determinant factors in the Catalan Multinational Manufacturing Case
Economia de Barcelona. BCcampus Posted: 2003
Tung Ha , Son , Chu , Vu , Tuan , Mai Nguyen , Tuget , Thi , Dung Nguyen , Hoai , Thi , Anh Nguyen , Ngoc , Thi
The impact of Greenfield investment on domestic entrepreneurship
Journal of Innovation and Entrepreneurship , volume 10 , issue 24 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2021
Seok Ko , Jin
The Differing Foreign Entry Mode Choices for Sales and Production Subsidiaries of Multinational Corporations in the Manufacturing Industry
Sustainability , volume 11 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2019
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
20 Year review of acquisitions, mergers, restructurings and disposals in Malawian Commercial Banking Industry
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
193
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies