Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Website Cookies and Voluntary Disclosure

76 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Junhao Liu

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: December 13, 2024

Abstract

Using detailed website cookie information obtained from U.S. firms' websites in real time, I measure the volume of consumer data collected via website cookies and investigate whether and how such data affect firms' accounting information environments. Cookies infuse first-hand, granular, and real-time data into managers' information sets and have the potential to improve internal information quality and thus encourage voluntary disclosure. I show that the number of cookies is positively related to the frequency and the likelihood of issuing management sales forecasts. I also find that the usage of cookies is also associated with a larger percentage of qualitative disclosure regarding customers, marketing, and products in 10-K filings. The effects are more pronounced when collected data are of stronger relevance or of larger volume. Next, I show that data analytic technology enhances the effect of cookie-collected data on disclosure, whereas data privacy protection regimes restrict the usefulness of cookies. Using the California Consumer Privacy Act as a quasi-natural experiment, I provide additional causal evidence for the relation between cookie-collected data and voluntary disclosure. Overall, the study sheds light on the value of firm-collected digital data in facilitating disclosure decisions and shaping the internal and external accounting information environments.

Keywords: Website Cookies, Voluntary Disclosure, Digital Economy, Financial Reporting, Internal Information Quality, Big Data, Data Analytics, Data Privacy

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Junhao, Website Cookies and Voluntary Disclosure (December 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5054122 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5054122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
S Abis , L Veldkamp
The changing economics of knowledge production
Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , p. 89 - 118 Posted: 2024
C Armstrong , Y Konchitchki , B Zhang
Digital traffic, financial performance, and stock valuation Posted: 2023
J E Bessen , S M Impink , L Reichensperger , R Seamans
GDPR and the importance of data to AI startups Posted: 2020
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
814
RANK
269,796
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies