Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intercompany Licensing Rates: Implications from Principal-Agent Theory

International Tax Journal, September-October 2010.

22 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Date Written: September 28, 2010

Abstract

This 2010 paper proposes a “Best Method” under U.S. transfer pricing regulations that can be used to adjust fixed intercompany royalties determined under a Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction (CUT) method to reduce the non-arm’s length outcomes that can arise under a variety of scenarios. The proposed approach is based on making such royalty for use of licensed intellectual property such as technology or branding marks variable based on a set of constraints. For instance, empirical research into licensing outcomes has found that intellectual property licenses tend to recover for the licensor only a fraction of the overall system or joint profits generated by the licensee’s use of the intellectual property in its operations. This empirical research was the basis for the “25% rule of thumb” that was until recently often used to establish damages for patent infringements and other unauthorized use of protected intellectual property. In actuality the 25% reference was an average of rates that varied by industry but was never greater than about 40% for the most valuable licensed technology. Another empirical finding is that some unrelated license fees incentivize the licensee to undertake investments that can improve revenues and profits from activities that use the licensed intellectual property, such as reducing the license fee to account for increased expenses such as debt payments for financial leverage used to increase production capabilities. Finally, when revenues are lower than expected, the royalties paid for licenses of intellectual property can increase as a proportion of the post-license profit, even to the point of absorbing all of the licensee’s post-license profits or requiring a license fee on revenues when there are no profits at all from the licensed sales. Instances of unrelated license fees have also been found in which license fees are adjusted in cases where system profitability declines below a certain level, to provide the licensee a minimum profit on its own business activities, including instances where the license fee is eliminated in loss-making situations. All of these various empirical conditions and outcomes can be used as constraints, to cause intercompany license fees based on CUTs to be adjusted when necessary based on predetermined (ex post) outcomes negotiated or determined in advance of the executing the agreement or engaging in the license transaction, to maintain an arm’s length outcome across a variety of contingencies such as changes in revenues or expenses or other factors that can affect licensee post-license profits compared to the expectations of those variables when the license transaction was initiated.

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L, Intercompany Licensing Rates: Implications from Principal-Agent Theory (September 28, 2010). International Tax Journal, September-October 2010., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5075579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5075579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
409
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies