Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross Border Development of Intellectual Property: A Real Options Approach to Cost Sharing Under U.S. Section 482-7 Transfer Pricing Regulations 1

Journal of International Taxation, January, 2007. 

41 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Jean-François Ruhashyankiko

International Monetary Fund (IMF); Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA); Harvard University

Date Written: January 01, 2007

Abstract

Real options have been used in uncontrolled transactions to value purchase prices of various types of investments in contingent or otherwise risky assets. This 2007 paper proposes that similar approaches could be used in an intercompany context to value contingent or risky intercompany purchases of risky assets prior to resolution of the underlying risks. In particular the paper shows how real options could be used as an alternative to cost sharing arrangements, by determining a future acquisition price for in-development intellectual property before the outcome of the research is known. Benefits of the approach would be to limit the financial loss to both the investor and the developer, compared to cost sharing, in the event the research is ultimately unsuccessful. However, the purchase of the real option also grants the investor the right to acquire the asset if its development is successful at a price that is likely to be lower than the ex ante price once success is known. Real options therefore enable joint risk mitigation compared to cost sharing in the event of an unsuccessful project, as well as determination of an ex ante contingent arm’s length price if the project is successful. This can be a viable alternative to cost sharing or payment of a post-development intellectual property license, when either of those options is “too expensive” for one or both of the related party participants (for instance due to tax reasons). This type of pricing approach, being based on arm’s length behavior and pricing methods, is expected to be an acceptable transfer pricing valuation approach for contingent transactions, possibly more reliable than existing approaches, most of which are likewise unspecified methods. The paper also illustrates several examples of real option transactions under different scenarios, including participants with different income tax rates, research and development tax credit rates, discount rates and outcomes, and compares various outcomes to the results had the cost sharing method been used.

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L and Ruhashyankiko, Jean-Francois and Ruhashyankiko, Jean-Francois, Cross Border Development of Intellectual Property: A Real Options Approach to Cost Sharing Under U.S. Section 482-7 Transfer Pricing Regulations 1 (January 01, 2007).

Journal of International Taxation, January, 2007. 

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5075567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5075567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
260
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies