Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings quality, business group affiliation and investment efficiency

61 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Savita Rawat

Indian institute of technology delhi

Neeru Chaudhry

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi

Date Written: March 15, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of earnings quality and business group affiliation on investment decisions through theoretical channels of agency and information asymmetry. Using a dataset of 18,927 firm-year observations covering the period 1997-2021, we find that both earnings quality and business group affiliation improve investment efficiency by reducing both overand underinvestment. The positive relation between earnings quality and investments is more pronounced for group affiliates than for standalone firms suggesting the alignment effect outreaches entrenchment effect. Business group characteristics such as size, age, group resources, and cash flow rights significantly influence the relationship between earnings quality and investment. The robustness checks conducted, using alternate measures, the effect of political connection, and endogeneity checks, further confirm our main findings. Our findings highlight the complementary role of earnings quality and business groups in mitigating agency conflicts and improving resource allocation in an emerging country setting marked by a less developed financial market and weak legal protection. The study offers novel insights with practical implications for managers, investors, and policymakers in emerging markets, highlighting the importance of transparent reporting and a unique organizational structure in driving investment efficiency.

Keywords: Earnings quality, investment efficiency, business groups, internal capital market, Tunneling

JEL Classification: D81, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rawat, Savita and Chaudhry, Neeru, Earnings quality, business group affiliation and investment efficiency (March 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5078925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5078925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
Link to SEBI confirmatory order Posted: 2024-09-20
References Abel , A B
Optimal investment under uncertainty
The American Economic Review , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 228 - 233 Posted: 1983
A Adhikari , M Bansal , A Kumar
IFRS convergence and accounting quality: India a case study
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 45 Posted: 2021
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
591
RANK
618,599
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies