Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Bibliometric Analysis of Research on Forensic Accounting from 2006 to 2024
Social Sciences & Humanities Open

20 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2025 Publication Status: Accepted

Sunil Kumar

Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, University of Delhi

Shiran Khan

University of Delhi - Kalindi College

Reena Yadav

University of Delhi

Abstract

The purpose of the present study is to bring out diverse attributes of the literature review in the field of forensic accounting. The data have been extracted from the SCOPUS and 109 research papers filtered by applying PRISMA framework followed by bibliometric-analysis. The ‘biblioshiny’ tool of the R-studio package is used for analysis purposes. The output of the said package presented in tables and graphs. The study reveals that empirical research on the proposed topic is widely conducted in the western nations. The TC and NP of the developed nation is much higher than any other country. The SCP and MCP is higher, in case of source of the journals, of developed nation. The most relevant author, research paper, affiliations, and countries are also from the developed nation only. It opens an opportunity for the developing nation to undertake research in this field. The conceptual analysis of the study reveals sub-themes as per the contemporary requirements of the filed viz., forensic accounting techniques, fraud identification and risk assessment, role of certified public accountants in forensic accounting etc. It will provide help to research scholar in summarizing their literature review in future and suggests upcoming fields which may be undertaken as future research topic. The present study is original and reference of all sources, used in the study, are given at appropriate places and duly acknowledged.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Bibliometric Analysis, PRISMA Framework, Biblioshiny

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Sunil and Khan, Shiran and Yadav, Reena, A Bibliometric Analysis of Research on Forensic Accounting from 2006 to 2024. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5078504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5078504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
728
PlumX Metrics
Social Sciences & Humanities Open First Look
All Journals (1898)
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies