Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management: Concepts and Implications

Posted: 25 Feb 2025 Last revised: 24 Mar 2025

Meena Subedi

Carroll University

Avishek Bhandari

University of Wisconsin Whitewater

Date Written: January 03, 2025

Abstract

Abstract: This publication explores earnings management, a practice where companies manipulate their financial results to achieve specific earnings targets. We define earnings management, discuss its different types, and give examples of how it affects financial reports. We explain theories like agency theory, positive accounting theory and the big bath theory, which shed light on the motivations behind managerial earnings manipulation. Additionally, we discuss new trends in earnings management research and why auditing is important in the context of earnings management.

Learners/Audience: This study caters to a diverse range of students and researchers at various stages of their academic journey. For instance, a first-year undergraduate student might find the definition of earnings management helpful for an introductory class presentation. In contrast, a graduate student may seek to apply discretionary accruals and real earnings management using actual financial data for more advanced coursework or research projects. Meanwhile, a PhD student may concentrate on the sections discussing theories and new and emerging directions in earnings management to identify potential areas for their research focus. This publication provides valuable insights and practical applications tailored to meet the needs of students with different levels of expertise and academic objectives.

Learning Objectives: Upon completion of this study, students will be able to 1) List the different types of earnings management techniques 2) Explain the differences between accrual-based earnings management and real earnings management 3)  Analyze the underlying motivations behind earnings management through the lenses of agency theory, positive accounting theory, and big bath theory 4)  Explain the new and emerging directions in earnings management literature 5) Apply an empirical model to estimate discretionary accruals for a given set of financial data 6) Analyze the impact of various types of earnings management on the financial statements of a company and, 7) Analyze the implications of earnings management on the demand for auditing.

Note: If you are an instructor planning to use this publication in your class or course and need the solution file, please contact the corresponding author for more information.



Keywords: Earnings management, Discretionary accruals, Positive Accounting Theory, Agency theory, Information asymmetry, Conflict of interest, Big bath theory, Greenwashing, Accrual-Based Earnings Management, Real Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49, H83

Suggested Citation:

Subedi, Meena and Bhandari, Avishek, Earnings Management: Concepts and Implications (January 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5081248
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies