Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance evaluation and management within multi-national companies

8 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Marilena Ene Mucuta

Valahia University

Date Written: September 06, 2022

Abstract

The success of any investment, the performance and long-term viability of the business depend to the same extent on a series of fundamental decisions, whether individual or collective, of the management team. Each of these decisions ultimately has an economic impact on the business. A common element of all decisions is the fact that they are weighed from an economic point of view, so that a decision, before it is taken, is analyzed from the perspective of the expected cash benefits, compared to the costs involved. In this context, managers must carefully evaluate the probability that the net volume of resources allocated directly or indirectly through the decision taken will be recoverable and profitable over time, through the changes that the decision-making and the allocation of funds bring to incomes and expenses. Managers are also the ones who must clearly identify the information necessary to carry out some analyses, as their effect will inevitably affect the performance and value of the business. The obtained results are then periodically analyzed, either with the help of data from the financial statements, or by using specific economic analyses.

Keywords: computer system, accounting system, computerization, performance, financial analysis JEL codes: D21, C61

Suggested Citation:

Ene Mucuta, Marilena, Performance evaluation and management within multi-national companies (September 06, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5082639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5082639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
I Anghel
The bankruptcy, Economic Publishing Posted: 2002
P Kueng , A J W Krahn
Building a process Performance Measurement Systems: some early experiences
Journal of Scientific& Industrial Research Posted: 1999
N Mihailescu
Analysis of economic-financial activity, Publishing Victor Posted: 2001
I Moroşan
Financial and economic analysis, Tomorrow"s Foundation Publishing House Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
334
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies