Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Brokerage firms in FINRA's spotlight

48 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Liwen Ling

The University of Western Australia

Kam Fong Chan

The University of Western Australia; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Yuanji Wen

The University of Western Australia - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 03, 2025

Abstract

Since 2017, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has shifted its focus to fewer but higher-impact cases targeting large, high-profile brokerage firms. Compared to the SEC, FINRA enforces a stricter penalty regime, with 80.9% of cases resolved within three years. This study also examines the factors influencing FINRA's disciplinary actions, highlighting key regulatory priorities such as compliance with registration requirements and asset management. Firms with extensive misconduct histories and high risks of recurrence face heightened scrutiny. FINRA's sanctions are predominantly in major financial hubs, with geographic spillover effects appear to affect misconduct in nearby brokerage firms. There is no conclusive evidence that FINRA board membership influences the frequency of investigations into firms represented by its board members. These findings underscore FINRA's strategy to maximize deterrence and strengthen regulatory impact.

Keywords: FINRA, SEC, disciplinary actions, financial misconduct, brokerage firms

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Liwen and Chan, Kam Fong and Wen, Yuanji, Brokerage firms in FINRA's spotlight (January 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5083685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5083685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J M Addoum , A Kumar , N Le , A Niessen-Ruenzi
Local bankruptcy and geographic contagion in the bank loan market
Review of Finance , volume 24 , p. 997 - 1037 Posted: 2020
N Aliyev , I Allahverdiyeva , T J Putniņš
Is public distrust of the finance sector warranted? Evidence from financial adviser misconduct Posted: 2024
G Baetschmann , A Ballantyne , K E Staub , R Winkelmann
feologit: A new command for fitting fixed effects ordered logit models
The Stata Journal , volume 20 , p. 253 - 275 Posted: 2020
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
746
RANK
439,204
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies