Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National and City-Level Auditor Industry Expertise and Earnings Quality: Evidence from Peer-Driven Earnings Management

43 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2025

Joe (Joonghi) Cho

University of Bristol Business School

Xiaochi Ge

Schhol of Accounting and Finance, University of Bristol

Abstract

This study investigates whether an auditor’s industry expertise influences the earnings management behavior of industry follower firms after industry leaders announce their annual earnings. Building on prior research, which suggests that followers often manage earnings to mirror the performance of industry leaders, our empirical findings indicate that industry-specialist auditors (ISAs) significantly reduce income-increasing discretionary accruals among their follower clients when industry leaders report positive earnings news. We further compare the effects of ISAs at the national and city-office levels, and find that national-level ISAs play a more prominent role in this context. While previous studies typically highlight the greater impact of city-level expertise on audit quality and fee premiums, this paper contributes to the literature by showing that national-level expertise may be more effective in mitigating earnings management behaviors driven by industry-wide peer pressures.

Keywords: Industry-specialist auditors, Industry peer performance, earnings management, Discretionary accruals.

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Joe (Joonghi) and Ge, Xiaochi, National and City-Level Auditor Industry Expertise and Earnings Quality: Evidence from Peer-Driven Earnings Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5087629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5087629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
E M Bamber , L S Bamber , M P Schoderbek
Audit structure and other determinants of audit report lag: An empirical analysis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 12 , issue 1 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
429
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies