Auditor Use of Benchmarks to Assess Fraud Risk: The Case for Industry Data, Joseph F. Brazel, Keith L. Jones, Qiyang Lian"> Auditor Use of Benchmarks to Assess Fraud Risk: The Case for Industry Data">
Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Use of Benchmarks to Assess Fraud Risk: The Case for Industry Data

Journal of Forensic Accounting Research, 2024, Volume 9 (1): 23-57.

Posted: 21 Feb 2025 Last revised: 14 Mar 2025

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Keith L. Jones

University of Kansas

Qiyang Lian

University of Kansas, School of Business, Accounting and Information Systems Area, Students

Date Written: January 16, 2025

Abstract

Auditors perform preliminary analytical procedures to identify unusual or inconsistent relationships between expectations and recorded balances. The results of preliminary analytical procedures help auditors assess the risk that financial statements are materially misstated due to fraud. Via a survey of practicing auditors, we find that auditors rely heavily on prior-year balances and relations within the client’s financial data as benchmarks when developing expectations. Even though auditing standards describe additional benchmarks, which are less susceptible to management manipulation (e.g., industry trends), our survey results indicate that auditors are less apt to employ these benchmarks. Meanwhile, our empirical analyses of revenue frauds reveal that benchmarks derived from industry data, nonfinancial measures, and cash flows outperform both prioryear balances and relations within the client’s financial data. Of the benchmarks we examine, the difference between a company’s revenue growth and the revenue growth of its industry has historically been the best fraud indicator.

Keywords: analytical procedures; audit; benchmark; data analytics; fraud risk; industry

Ethics Approval

Ethics approval was given.

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Jones, Keith Lamar and Lian, Qiyang, Auditor Use of Benchmarks to Assess Fraud Risk: The Case for Industry Data (January 16, 2025). Journal of Forensic Accounting Research, 2024, Volume 9 (1): 23-57., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5100025
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
356
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies