Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

    Forensic Accounting and Auditing: Uncovering Financial Frauds

Ref No: IJEMR/V-14/I-6/12/2024

12 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025

Bhumika Joshi

IMS Unison University Dehradun

PRINCE CHOUHAN

IMS Unison University, Students

Date Written: September 11, 2024

Abstract

The field of forensic accounting combines accounting, auditing, and investigative methods to uncover, examine and deter financial fraud and misconduct. It plays a crucial role in both legal and corporate environments by examining financial records for evidence of fraudulent activity, quantifying damages, and providing litigation support. Forensic Accountant collaborate closely with law enforcement, regulatory agencies and legal teams to examine to white-collar crimes like embezzlement, money laundering, tax evasion and securities fraud. Forensic accounting involves advanced data analysis, fraud detection techniques, and a deep understanding of legal frameworks. It is vital for ensuring financial transparency, protecting organizational integrity, and aiding in the prosecution of financial crimes. As economic crimes become more sophisticated, forensic accounting continues to evolve, adapting to new challenges and technologies in fraud prevention and investigation.

Suggested Citation:

Joshi, Bhumika and CHOUHAN, PRINCE,

    Forensic Accounting and Auditing: Uncovering Financial Frauds

(September 11, 2024). Ref No: IJEMR/V-14/I-6/12/2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5103987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5103987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,563
RANK
344,140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Consumer Financial Fraud eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies