Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Blockchain Technology on Forensic Finance: Enhancing Transparency and Security

16 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2025

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: January 20, 2025

Abstract

In recent years, the world has been confronted with numerous events that have triggered more profound societal changes. The COVID-19 pandemic has paved the way for rethinking many aspects of everyday life. Furthermore, the growing individual awareness of global crises in democracy, poverty, inequality, and climate change demands a reformulation of priorities and a rediscovery of values long since taken for granted. The most heralded technology of the past ten years, blockchain, is believed to answer some pressing issues and is regarded as the backbone infrastructure for the post-COVID-19 and post-crisis world.

Blockchain is often presented as a panacea that will improve the world. However, as with all technologies, it is necessary to look behind the scenes and analyse how this technology works, what it does, and what it cannot do. Merely celebrating the positive features of blockchain will only result in yet another hype cycle. Therefore, this introduction aims to build a foundation for critical discourse about blockchain technology. In doing so, the long but all-too-often forgotten trajectory that brought society to the current socio-technological state of being is retraced, aiming to shed light on the key concepts of decentralisation and immutability fundamental to blockchain.

The intention is for readers to become acquainted with the seemingly simple technology that, once adopted, is expected to grow in complexity as it improves. Taking forensic finance as an introductory topic, issues of compliance, security, and ethics in finance-technology services are examined and argued to be immutable properties of blockchain systems that can enhance financial processes’ security. Having expounded on these more profound topics, the essay closes with a brief overview of blockchain’s general objectives. It is worth noting that blockchain is also spelt block-chain or blockchain in the literature. However, the spelling blockchain is used throughout the discussion to keep coherence. Finally, the current societal challenges are briefly outlined to set blockchain development in a broader context. The development of the Bitcoin blockchain, and blockchains in general, responds to these challenges and is believed to enhance transparency and trust in society (Chang et al., 2020).

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, The Impact of Blockchain Technology on Forensic Finance: Enhancing Transparency and Security (January 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5104156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5104156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
V Chang , P Baudier , H Zhang , Q Xu , J Zhang , M Arami
How Blockchain can impact financial services -The overview, challenges and recommendations from expert interviewees Posted: 2020
S Dong , K Abbas , M Li , J Kamruzzaman
Blockchain technology and application: an overview Posted: 2023
W Thomas Weilbach
Practical application of distributed ledger technology in support of digital evidence integrity verification processes Posted: 2018
K Dasaklis , T Casino , F Patsakis , C
SoK: Blockchain Solutions for Forensics Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
454
RANK
848,823
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies