Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Licensed Detection Agents: The Case for Financial Crime Bounty Hunters

47 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2025

Miles Kellerman

Leiden University

Date Written: January 22, 2025

Abstract

Policymakers around the world have outsourced the detection of money laundering, market manipulation, and other financial crimes to the private sector. This approach, commonly referred to as the gatekeeper model, obligates companies to monitor their own clients and report suspicious activity. Unfortunately, however, the model is not working. Gatekeepers incur fines at an alarmingly consistent rate for performing ineffective surveillance, and evidence suggests that the vast majority of financial crime goes undetected. There is a general consensus that these failures reflect the inherent conflict of interest of the gatekeeper model. But observers also agree that transferring these surveillance responsibilities to regulators would raise serious privacy concerns. This paper proposes a third way. It advocates for a new program in which Licensed Detection Agents (LDAs) are empowered to monitor financial transactions and rewarded for reporting suspicious activity to regulators. The LDA program would create a competitive market for detection, flipping the perverse incentives of the gatekeeper model while preserving customer privacy. In so doing, the program would solve what I refer to as the Detection Trilemma. The paper introduces this trilemma, reviews existing incentivization programs, and outlines how empowering LDAs would improve regulators’ capacity to generate actionable information on suspicious activity.

Keywords: financial crime, surveillance, money laundering, market manipulation, insider trading, fraud, regulation, financial regulation, gatekeepers, privacy, public-private, sanctions, terrorist financing, trilemma, detection, whistleblowers, bounty hunters

JEL Classification: K2, N4, G18, G28

Suggested Citation:

Kellerman, Miles, Licensed Detection Agents: The Case for Financial Crime Bounty Hunters (January 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5106992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5106992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Fenergo
supra note 20; FENERGO, supra note 20
Joel Slawotsky
Reining in Recidivist Financial Institutions, 40 DEL
J. CORP. LAW , volume 280 Posted: 2015
Data obtained from Good Jobs First, Violation Tracker , volume 23 Posted: 2024
U S Department , Justice
Plea Agreement Re: United States v. TD Bank Holding Company, Attachment A: Statement of Facts , p. 3 - 4 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
780
RANK
524,565
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies