Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategies for Transforming High Debts of CEMAC Member Countries into Sustainable Economic Assets 

18 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2025

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: January 22, 2025

Abstract

Fourteen years into the 21st century, the sub-region of Central Africa has still not attuned itself to the basic nuances of the world's economic landscape. The year 2013 could be argued as an annus horribilis, given the violence and bloodshed experienced in the Central African Republic (C.A. R.), compounded with the tempering of growth in Cameroon, the Republic of Congo, and Gabon. One of the strangest ironies of this part of Africa is the close to four decades-long de facto single currency arrangement (Francs de la Communauté Financière d’Afrique - FCFA) with the French state. However, the gravest economic calamities have befallen it, nurturing macroeconomic recessions, wasteful fiscalities, exorbitant public debts, grotesque grafts, and neglect of investment in human capital. The deadly burden of public debts and the clamour for sustainable development is older than " sustainable " among the six member countries of the Communauté Economique et Monétaire de l’Afrique Centrale (C.E.M.A.C.). Firstly, the crisis of public debt is highlighted with pertinent figures. Then, a critical and deep examination of growth rates vis-à-vis public capex and social expenditure is taken up.

The last part offers innovative strategies to convert high debts into sustainable economic assets. The overall total debt of the C.E.M.A.C. member countries has seen a significant increase, rising from the time of the Union's inception in December 1998 up until December 2012 by nearly threefold, precisely 2.9 times, when considering the absolute value.
Regarding gross domestic product (GDP), the ratio has escalated from 42.8% to 55.5%. However, the most alarming statistic highlights the proportion of exports, which has surged from 127.3% to 293.6%. For context, the averages for global and African proportions stand at 52.0% and 80.4%, respectively. Among the member countries, Cameroon, the Republic of Congo, and the Central African Republic face the most severe challenges due to their 1 overwhelming public debt burdens. When examining the growth rates and the severity of the public debt crisis, it is evident that C.E.M.A.C. has emerged as the most critical and perilous region on the African continent in the 21st century. The situation poses serious concerns that will likely be exacerbated further, particularly with the continuing decline in oil prices, projected to fall below the $100 mark. (Yagoub Mohamed Dawelbait, 2015)  

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Strategies for Transforming High Debts of CEMAC Member Countries into Sustainable Economic Assets  (January 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5107226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5107226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Yagoub Mohamed Dawelbait , O
Debt Crisis in Africa Posted: 2015
M Dash
A study of regional trends in external debt in developing economies Posted: 2016
K Stone
Debt Accumulation and Economic Growth in Emerging Market Economies: Is Debt Promoting or Hindering Growth? Posted: 2019
V Paceskoski , O Gjorgieva Trajkovska , V Georgieva Svrtinov , K Nikoloski , B Koleva
External Debt as a Fundamental Problem for Developing Countries Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
230
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economic Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies