Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
THE ROLE OF KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS IN INVESTMENT DECISION

7 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025

Thamir salih edan

Independent

Date Written: November 11, 2022

Abstract

The preliminary review of the financial reports of the banks listed on the Iraqi Stock Exchange reveals the existence of an untapped cash block that is reflected in the Key financial performance indicators (Financial KPI's). The study discusses the fact that the Financial KPI's of the banks listed in the Iraqi Stock Exchange are among the factors that have a role in the decision to buy bank shares by investors. Therefore, the study aims to test the role of the Financial KPI's represented by financial leverage, liquidity, capital adequacy and profitability in the decision to purchase bank shares by investors, by testing the strength and direction of the relationship and testing the impact size of the Financial KPI's in the decision to purchase bank shares by investors of a sample of commercial banks listed in the Iraq Stock Exchange (the regular market) amounted to (10) banks for the period (2016-2020). Among the most important conclusions reached by the study, there is no role for indicators of liquidity, capital adequacy and risk in the investment decision. The role of debt indicators is not important in the investment decision. There is a role for profitability indicators in the investment decision.

Keywords: debt indicators, Liquidity Indicators, Capital adequacy, Profitability Indicators

Suggested Citation:

salih edan, Thamir, THE ROLE OF KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS IN INVESTMENT DECISION (November 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5116902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5116902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M F Akhtar , K Ali , S Sadaqat
Liquidity risk management: a comparative study between conventional and Islamic banks of Pakistan
Interdisciplinary journal of study in business , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 44 Posted: 2011
S A Atuahene , K Yusheng , G Benturn-Micah , A K Aboagye
Impact of Capital Adequacy on Banks' Performance: Considering the Basel International Regulatory Framework for Banks
ETIKONOMI , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 54 Posted: 2021
Y Coulon
Rational Investing with Ratios: Implementing Ratios with Enterprise Value and Behavioral Finance Posted: 2019
N M Das , J Deb
Does Capital Adequacy Rule Influence Efficiency? An Empirical Evidence from Indian Public Sector Banks , volume 49 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,031
RANK
328,615
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Strategy Models for Firm Performance Enhancement eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies