Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Fostering Growth and Development by Generating Employment and Reducing Poverty

7 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025

Kanhai Kumar

Jai Prakash University, Chapra

Date Written: February 05, 2024

Abstract

Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are indispensable catalysts for economic development, playing a pivotal role in advancing sustainable development goals and contributing to the eradication of poverty in all its dimensions. These enterprises are widely acknowledged as the backbone of global economies, possessing distinctive attributes that contribute significantly to creating a more just, inclusive, and environmentally conscious global community. Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are vital for creating jobs globally. They offer employment in local communities, support entrepreneurship, and provide diverse job opportunities across various sectors. MSMEs also contribute to employment through supply chains and play a crucial role in rural areas, helping to alleviate poverty and drive economic growth. The Indian government has introduced a range of initiatives aimed at fostering industries and generating employment opportunities in alignment with Sustainable Development Goal: No Poverty. These initiatives include the revamped Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme Scheme, Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana. India has made notable progress in alleviating poverty, as evidenced by the Multidimensional Poverty Index Report. However, poverty remains a multifaceted societal challenge, persisting at various levels-local, regional, and international. As the United Nations' campaign to combat poverty moves into its third decade (2018-2027), it is imperative to evaluate advancements at the grassroots level. India has embraced the SDG framework and harmonized its policies and initiatives to realize these objectives.

Keywords: MSMEs, Sustainable Development Goals, Employment Generation, Access to Finance, Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, PMEGP, Poverty Alleviation, Multidimensional Poverty Index

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Kanhai, Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Fostering Growth and Development by Generating Employment and Reducing Poverty (February 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5125259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5125259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Nbfcs Scbs , Mfis
This financial assistance targets individuals seeking to generate income through endeavours in the manufacturing, trade, service, or agriculture sectors. Shishu, Kishore and Tarun are the three schemes under PMMY with the maximum loan limit of Rs 50 Posted: 0184
K Sriniwas , P Vandenberg
Poverty Reduction through Small Enterprises: Emerging consensus, unresolved issues and ILO activities.International Labour Organization
International Journal of Engineering and Management Research , volume 3 , issue 4 Posted: 2006
M P David
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)-Challenges for India
Indian Journal of Public Health Research & Development , volume 9 , issue 3 Posted: 2018
Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of India Posted: 2023-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
560
RANK
386,825
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies