Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crypto and Cocaine: How do Criminals Behave after Large Drug Seizures?

42 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2025

Andrea Bafundi

University of Padova, Department of Economics and Management

Marco Ghitti

University of Padua - Department of Economics and Management

Michele Fabrizi

University of Padua

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: January 31, 2025

Abstract

We examine the relationship between drug seizures and cryptocurrency flows, focusing on daily number and value of transactions. We hypothesize that, following large drug seizures, criminal organizations increase their reliance on cryptocurrencies to replenish drug inventories. Using an international database of drug seizures from 2017 to 2022 alongside market data for various cryptocurrencies, we investigate whether drug seizure dates exhibit abnormal fluctuations in transactions and volumes of cryptos exchanged globally. Our results show a significant increase in both transactions and values on seizure days. These effects are driven by flows through specific markets and entities. Surprisingly, we do not find abnormal activity within markets and entities commonly associated with criminal organizations, such as dark markets or unregulated and sanctioned entities. Instead, these markets and entities receive flows from regulated and non-dark market entities on seizure days. Our results suggest a strategic use of certain entities by criminals.

Keywords: bitcoin, drug seizures, criminal organizations, business operations, forensic accounting

JEL Classification: G15, G19, K42, M29, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bafundi, Andrea and Ghitti, Marco and Fabrizi, Michele and Parbonetti, Antonio, Crypto and Cocaine: How do Criminals Behave after Large Drug Seizures? (January 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5126728 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5126728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
V Aggarwal , M Saini , P Kumar , M Yadav , A Doifode
Impact of cryptocurrencies on inflation: evidence from BICS countries
International Journal of Diplomacy and Economy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 78 - 91 Posted: 2024
P Agnese
On blockchains, cryptos, and media of exchange. not there (yet)
International Journal of Intellectual Property Management , volume 11 , p. 81 - 94 Posted: 2021
A Ahmadova , T Guliyev , K Aliyev
The Relationship between Bitcoin and Nasdaq, U.S. Dollar Index and Commodities
International Journal of Energy Economics and Policy , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 281 - 289 Posted: 2024
Christos Alexakis , A G , G Petrella
Flight to cryptos: Evidence on the use of cryptocurrencies in times of geopolitical tensions
International Review of Economics Finance , volume 89 , p. 498 - 523 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
517
RANK
508,348
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies