Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Windfall federal grants and local government corruption

54 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Xiangpei Chen

Loyola University of Chicago

Angela K. Gore

George Washington University

Jennifer Spencer

George Washington University

James Wade

George Washington University

Date Written: October 20, 2024

Abstract

Although preventing and detecting public sector corruption is critically important to citizens and regulators, surprisingly little US accounting research addresses it. Our study investigates whether federal grant shocks (deemed “windfalls”) increase occurrences of local public official corruption, and whether local, state and federal audit oversight and an active press help ameliorate that relationship. Using a unique hand-collected dataset of local public corruption constructed from court filings, we find that grant windfalls are associated with significantly more public corruption charges filed. With respect to local audit oversight, questioned costs and audit findings exacerbate windfall-corruption relations, while modified opinions and material weaknesses have no significant effect. State oversight results suggest a greater percentage of state fraud auditors on staff, as well as the appointment of a State Auditor who is a Certified Fraud Auditor, weakens the windfall-corruption relationship. The appointment of a new federal oversight agency coupled with a windfall has a deterrence effect, suggesting that a newly appointed oversight agency has “fresh eyes” and monitors the local government more closely. Results also demonstrate a robust local news media helps reduce windfall-corruption relations. Additional analyses suggest that results are stronger when the lead criminal charge is specifically related to federal grant programs. Overall, we contribute to extant literature by exploring accounting-related aspects of local public corruption that may help inform federal regulators interested in strengthening the Single Audit process.

Keywords: Governmental Accounting, Federal Grants, Fraud Auditing, Material Weakness, Press Transparency, public corruption

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiangpei and Gore, Angela K. and Spencer, Jennifer and Wade, James, Windfall federal grants and local government corruption (October 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5141035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5141035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A Ades , R Di Tella
Rents, competition, and corruption
American Economic Review , volume 89 , issue 4 , p. 982 - 993 Posted: 1999
A Adut
A theory of scandal: Victorians, homosexuality, and the fall of Oscar Wilde
Politics and art Posted: 2005
Government auditing standards and circular A-133 audits Posted: 2009
E Avis , C Ferraz , F Finan
Do government audits reduce corruption? Estimating the impacts of exposing corrupt politicians
Journal of Political Economy , volume 126 , issue 5 , p. 1912 - 1964 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,564
RANK
337,747
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies