Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Fraud: Earnings Management & Revenue Recognition, and Prevention & Detection of Frauds

96 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2025

Hasan Alaali

Institute of Certified Public Accountant ( ICPAP); Association of International Accountants (AIA)

Date Written: March 26, 2019

Abstract

Financial statement frauds have recently received high attention from the public as well as legislation due to the collapse of several corporations, including Enron, WorldCom, and the South Sea Bubble. These scandals led to the enactment of Sarbanes-Oxley in 2002. Even more concerning is the failure of external auditors to detect financial statement frauds, as seen in the case of Arthur Andersen, which was responsible for auditing Enron’s financial statements but failed to detect the fraud before Enron's collapse.

The public and regulatory bodies increasingly believe that public accountants should learn techniques for fraud detection. One of the best ways to do this is by studying past fraud cases and learning from their mistakes. These frauds provide public accountants and fraud examiners valuable learning opportunities despite their disastrous consequences. Research shows that less than 19% of occupational frauds are detected by either external or internal auditors (ACFE 2010, 2012, 2014), even though the AICPA has clearly defined auditors’ responsibilities in providing reasonable assurance that financial statements are free from material misstatement (Perols, 2011).

After the collapse of Enron and other scandals, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act was enacted to restore public confidence in financial statements. However, this also led to increased responsibilities and pressures on auditors and management (Abassi, Albassi, Vance, & Hansen, 2012). External auditors are responsible for evaluating the risk of material misstatement through analytical procedures (PCAOB, 2010), while management is responsible for detecting and preventing frauds through internal controls (Mangla & Kumari, 2015).

Financial statement fraud has a disastrous impact on businesses and the overall economy. It undermines investor confidence in financial markets, reduces market efficiency, and can lead to significant economic losses.

The latest fraud detection techniques, including ratio analysis, price-earnings ratios (Weske & Benuto, 2015), income tax expense analysis (Killen, 2016), and cash flow techniques (Scott, 2012), have been explored to assess fraud risk and company culture (Wang & Fargher, 2015). Some researchers have also used digital analysis techniques to predict financial statement fraud.

The aim of this research is to provide a comprehensive overview of financial statement frauds, critically analyze fraud processes, examine their motivations, and assess their major categories, costs, and causes. The study also explores the techniques used by perpetrators and highlights the importance of understanding these methods for fraud prevention and detection. Lastly, the r

esearch provides recommendations for preventing and detecting financial statement frauds.

Keywords: Financial Statement Fraud, Earnings Management, Revenue Recognition, Fraud Detection, Fraud Prevention, Auditing, Enron Scandal, WorldCom Fraud, Fraudulent Financial Reporting F, Forensic Accounting, Corporate Governance, Internal Controls, External Auditors, Fraud Triangle, Risk Assessment, Material Misstatement, Regulatory Compliance, Accounting Manipulation, Business Ethics

Declaration of Interest

The author declares no personal financial, or international conflicts or interest related to this research.

Ethics Approval

This research does not involve human participants, medical data, or experiments requiring ethical approval.

Funder Statement

This research was conducted independently and was not funded by any external organization.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G34, G38, K22, K42, D73

Suggested Citation:

Alaali, Hasan, Financial Statement Fraud: Earnings Management & Revenue Recognition, and Prevention & Detection of Frauds (March 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5157993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5157993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Fraud Examiners Manual
References: ACFE Posted: 2014
Acfe
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2010
Acfe
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2012
Acfe
Report to the Nations on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
653
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,079
RANK
92,554
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies