Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting Education: A Survey of Academicians and Practitioners

Advances in Accounting Education, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 5 May 2004

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

D. Larry Crumbley

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Robert C. Elmore

Tennessee Technological University

Abstract

We have recently witnessed significant emphasis on improving investor confidence and public trust in financial reports. Reported financial scandals (e.g., Enron, WorldCom, Global Crossing, Qwest, Parmalat) have eroded investor confidence and made forensic accounting an attractive career opportunity for accountants to combat fraud. Forensic accounting is defined in this study as the practice of rigorous data collection and analysis in the areas of litigation support consulting, expert witnessing, and fraud examination. At present, there appears to be a gap between forensic accounting practices and education in the sense that forensic accounting is viewed as one of the most secure career tracks, yet there are only a limited number of accounting programs offering forensic accounting courses. There is little background data available, and rarely any evidence post-Enron, Andersen, and other financial scandals, with respect to the integration of forensic accounting education into the accounting curricula and particularly whether academicians' actions are consistent with the needs of practitioners for well-trained and knowledgeable forensic accountants.

This study gathers opinions of both academicians and practitioners regarding the importance, relevance, and delivery of forensic accounting education. Results indicate that the demand for and interest in forensic accounting is expected to continue to increase; more universities are planning to provide forensic accounting education; both groups of respondents viewed forensic accounting education as being relevant and beneficial to accounting students, the business community, the accounting profession, and accounting programs; and the majority of 49 suggested forensic accounting topics are considered as important for integration into the accounting curriculum by both groups of surveyed academicians and practitioners. Results also indicate that some significant differences exist regarding topical coverage of forensic accounting between academicians and practitioners. These results are useful to universities and colleges that are considering integrating forensic accounting education into their curriculum or redesigning their forensic accounting courses.

Keywords: Forensic accounting, Accounting curriculum, Anti-fraud education, Financial scandals

JEL Classification: A20, K22, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Rezaee, Zabihollah and Crumbley, D. Larry and Elmore, Robert C., Forensic Accounting Education: A Survey of Academicians and Practitioners. Advances in Accounting Education, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=518263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Accountingweb
Financial scandals turn forensic accounting into a hot job Posted: 2002-04-16
W S Albrecht
Fraud Examination Posted: 2003
Ethics Education Task Force
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) Posted: 2004
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Wm. Dennis Huber , D. Larry Crumbley
Public Accounting and Financing Terrorist Organizations and Activities: Ethical and Legal Obligations
Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 18(1), 59-79 (2017) · 21 Pages · Posted: 27 Mar 2017 · Downloads: 222
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wm. Dennis Huber , D. Larry Crumbley
Public Accounting and Financing Terrorist Organizations and Activities: Ethical and Legal Obligations
Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 18, No. 1, 2017 · 21 Pages · Posted: 27 Mar 2017 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Clarence Goh , Benjamin Huan Zhou Lee , Gary Pan , Poh-Sun Seow
Forensic Analytics Using Cluster Analysis: Detecting Anomalies in Data
Journal of Corporate Accounting, Vol 32(1): 1-8 · 21 Pages · Posted: 5 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 1 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 192
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,391
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,404
RANK
3,711
3 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Fishbowl the Forensic Accountant: Are There Differences in the Views of the Relevant Skills of a Forensic Accountant Among Practitioners, Academics and Users of Forensic Accounting Services?

By James A. Digabriele

Perception of Forensic Accountants About Elaboration of Free Judicial Expertise in Brazil

By Idalberto José Das Neves Júnior, Anna Paula Sousa, ...

The Challenges of Public Sector Audit as an Effective Accountability Tool in PPP Arrangements in Nigeria

By Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu and Gloria Ogochukwu Okafor

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies