Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating the Global Financial Maze: A Comprehensive Analysis of Tax Havens and Offshore Banking.


10 Pages Posted: 29 May 2025 Last revised: 29 May 2025

Saanya Vashishtha

Independent

Shreya Tiwari

Independent

Date Written: March 23, 2023

Abstract

The problem of money laundering has existed for a long time now and influences financial institutions globally. Furthermore, experts have determined and estimated that since large amounts of money are laundered globally every year, it has become the need of the hour to combat this criminal activity. Furthermore, the existence of international tax havens and offshore banks has added to this problem. Many businesses are solely created in order to become tax havens and the usage of offshore accounts and banking is done for laundering money. These accounts are usually set up in geographical regions wherein individuals or businesses are given a variety of benefits, the prime one being a lower tax rate. Economies compete with one another to provide tax breaks and other inducements to overseas investors. In certain locations, financial information is kept confidential. It has now become difficult for governments from other countries to monitor the flow of money and determine who owns what assets in certain regions.

Keywords: Tax Havens, Money Laundering, Business, Money

Suggested Citation:

Vashishtha, Saanya and Tiwari, Shreya, Navigating the Global Financial Maze: A Comprehensive Analysis of Tax Havens and Offshore Banking.
(March 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5190284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5190284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
T Sigler , K Martinus , I Iacopini , B Derudder
The role of tax havens and offshore financial centres in shaping corporate geographies: an industry sector perspective
Regional Studies , volume 54 , issue 5 , p. 621 - 633 Posted: 2020
J Damgaard
Inside the world of global tax havens and offshore banking
Finance & Development , volume 55 , issue 2 Posted: 2018
D Dominguez , O Pantoja , P Pico , M Mateos , M Alonso-Almeida , M Del , M González
Panama Papers' offshoring network behavior
Heliyon , volume 6 , issue 6 Posted: 2020
M Joaristi , E Serra , F Spezzano
Detecting suspicious entities in offshore leaks networks
Social Network Analysis and Mining , volume 9 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
205
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies