Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Money Laundering Practices in the Scope of Risk Mitigation and Comparison with Anti-Money Laundering Regulations

50 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2025

Nejat Utku Inaltong

Independent

Date Written: April 13, 2025

Abstract

In the age of digitalisation, online financial services have become a vital part of overall transactions in the world, facilitating a better, faster and more efficient way to transfer money securely and substantially. Nevertheless, it has also brought various difficulties regarding monitoring and screening online transaction assets and establishing risk management practices. Therefore, promoting the gravity of instituting anti-money laundering practices in European and Global contexts could be answered best in the scope of cyber & information security, data privacy, digital banking and especially compliance law. Although most of the measures are limited in the jurisdiction of the respective countries, it is vital to understand the possible effects of money laundering and terrorist financing that might disturb the integrity and transparency of financial markets globally. It is challenging to assess the scale of money laundering around the globe. However, according to UNODC’s database, the money laundering scheme can be roughly estimated at $2 trillion, representing 2-5% of the world’s total GDP. Therefore, understanding the measures for combating money laundering from the two most influential judicatures(the EU and International law) is essential to raising awareness to detect and prevent transactions with a criminal background. This paper will focus on AML practices in the scope of compliance law. After covering the essence of AML regulations and practices, it will be followed by reviewing landmark judicial precedents and accepted doctrines around the globe to establish a more profound understanding of how to prevent these illegal activities. Subsequently, this paper will argue about specific case laws to extend the knowledge of the legal existence of fair use to avoid misinterpretation. This paper will be finalised with the author’s concluding remarks.

Keywords: Anti Money Laundering, EU Directives, Risk Mitigation, Countering the Financing of Terrorism, AML, AMLD 6, Administrative Law, Anti-Corruption Rules, Criminal Law, European Law, European and International Business Law, Know Your Customer, Customer Due Diligence, Enhanced Due Diligence, EDD, KYC, CDD

Suggested Citation:

Inaltong, Nejat Utku, Anti-Money Laundering Practices in the Scope of Risk Mitigation and Comparison with Anti-Money Laundering Regulations (April 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5215578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5215578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
The Emergence of the Gig Economy
Comply Advantage
What are the 3 Stages of Money Laundering?
Comply Advantage
What is Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD)?
Global AML Regulations: What You Need To Know
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
511,510
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies