Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inside Out: Who Trade Before the Start of Cyber Attacks?

72 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 17 Jul 2025

Xi Dong

City University of New York, Baruch College - Zicklin School of Business - Department of Economics and Finance

Edward Xuejun Li

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Xintian Lin

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Xin Yuan

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics - School of Accounting

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Using a unique data set, we provide the first comprehensive evidence of trading before successful cyberattacks. Although only hackers should expect an imminent breach, short selling in victim firms intensifies a few weeks earlier—particularly when shares are widely lendable—whereas insider and institutional trades remain flat. Retail investors, ostensibly the least informed, likewise presciently divest/short soon-to-be-attacked stocks, coinciding with spikes in “<company-name>+hacking” Google queries and rising trading/short costs. Post-cyberattack, victims earn negative returns—implying a wealth transfer vastly exceeding widely-publicized ransom demands. Therefore, cyberattacks—the tip of the iceberg of outsider-generated information—undermine the traditional paradigm of insider-centric information asymmetry.

Keywords: Data Breach, Cyberattack, Outsider-Generated Information, Information Asymmetry, Short Selling, Retail Trading, Insider Trading

JEL Classification: G12, G14, K24

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Xi and Li, Edward Xuejun and Lin, Xintian and Yuan, Xin, Inside Out: Who Trade Before the Start of Cyber Attacks? (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5215568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5215568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
P Akey , V Grégoire , ; , C Martineau
Price Revelation from Insider Trading: Evidence from Hacked Earnings News
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , p. 1162 - 1184 Posted: 2022
F Allen , D Gale
Stock-Price Manipulation
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 5 , p. 503 - 529 Posted: 1992
B M Barber , T Odean
Trading Is Hazardous to Your Wealth: The Common Stock Investment Performance of Individual Investors
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 773 - 806 Posted: 2000
B M Barber , X Huang , P Jorion , T Odean , ; , C Schwarz
A (Sub)penny for Your Thoughts: Tracking Retail Investor Activity in TAQ
The Journal of Finance , volume 79 , p. 2403 - 2427 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
733
RANK
424,948
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies