Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARACTERISTICS ON EARNINGS MANAGEMENT OF LISTED INDUSTRIAL GOODS COMPANIES IN NIGERIA

14 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: April 14, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the impact of audit committee characteristics on earnings management of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria from 2012 to 2021.The number of industrial goods firms is fifteen (15), out of which nine (9) were used for analysis. The study seeks to examine the effect audit committee characteristics (as measured by audit committee financial expertise, audit committee meetings) have on earnings management of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria. The method of data collection for the study was secondary and data were extracted from sources, such as the sampled firms annual reports and accounts. The study uses STATA 13.0 as a tool for the data analysis. The results show that there is positive significant relationship between audit committee financial expertise, audit committee meetings and audit committee size on earnings management of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria. The research concludes that there is a positive and significant relationship between audit committee financial expertise and earnings management of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria. Audit committee meeting and earnings management of listed industrial products corporations in Nigeria have a positive and significant association. Finally, there is a positive and significant association between the firm size and the earnings management of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria. Leverage has a positive association with earnings management. The study recommends that listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria should engage experts audit members who have specific knowledge and expertise and also the corporations should hold regular meetings to oversee financial reporting process and internal control of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria. Also, the management of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria should enhance the size of their firms since it has the ability to increase the earnings of listed industrial goods firms in Nigeria. The firm should monitor its leverage since it can improve financial performance.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Audit Committee Meetings, Audit Committee Size, Earnings Management, Financial Expertise, Industrial Goods firms

Declaration of Interest

No clash of interest

Ethics Approval

No ethical clash

Funder Statement

Self

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARACTERISTICS ON EARNINGS MANAGEMENT OF LISTED INDUSTRIAL GOODS COMPANIES IN NIGERIA (April 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5216629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5216629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
622
RANK
552,669
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies