Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
BOARD SIZE AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE OF LISTED SERVICES FIRMS IN NIGERIA, MODERATED BY FIRM LISTING AGE

18 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Safiya Onozare Usman

NIGERIAN DEFENCE ACADEMY

Mohammed Nma Ahmed

NIGERIAN DEFENCE ACADEMY

Suleiman Tauhid

NIGERIAN DEFENCE ACADEMY

Date Written: April 16, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the effect of board size on the capital structure of 17 listed services firms in Nigeria, for a period of 10 years (2013-2022) using firm listing age as a moderator. Board size is measured by the absolute number of directors on the board, while capital structure is measured by long-term debt to equity. Firm listing age is measured from the age of listing of the firm on the Nigerian Exchange. The results show that the R-square value in Model 1 is 7.46%, while it is 8.27% in Model 2. Based on these results, the study concludes that board size is not a determinant of capital structure before moderation and after moderation. Further research is expected to be able to add other board of directors' characteristics that may influence the capital structure decisions of a firm. Limitations of the study include methodology and possible omission of some variables. It is felt that both within and between endogeneities may be better addressed using simultaneous equation methodology. Furthermore, the study is limited by the number of samples (17). It is expected that further research can increase the sample by adding to the research period or using company samples from other sectors, not only the services sector.

Keywords: board size, capital structure, firm listing age, Nigeria Exchange, services firms JEL Codes: C23, C58, C87, M21, M24, M48

Declaration of Interest

No clash of interest

Ethics Approval

Ethical pass

Funder Statement

Self

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege and Usman, Safiya Onozare and Ahmed, Mohammed Nma and Tauhid, Suleiman, BOARD SIZE AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE OF LISTED SERVICES FIRMS IN NIGERIA, MODERATED BY FIRM LISTING AGE (April 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5219137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5219137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
H Abdulkarim , S M Bahamman
Moderating effect of board independence on the relationship between capital structure and profitability of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria
Journal of Economics and Trade , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2021
S Abdullahi , M N Alifiah
Board independence and capital structure of Nigerian non-financial listed firms: The moderating role of institutional ownership
International Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 38 - 53 Posted: 2021
A B Abdul-Qadir , E V Yaroson , M Abdu
Institutional Investors, Board Size and Capital Structure Decisions: Empirical Evidence from Non-Financial Firms in Nigeria
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 7 , issue 23 , p. 82 - 90 Posted: 2015
J Abor
Determinants of the capital structure of Ghanaian firms Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
833,930
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies