Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contabilidade Forense como Instrumento de Combate à Corrupção: um Estudo Sobre A Atuação Do Perito Criminal Federal Na Operação Lava-Jato 
Forensic Accounting as an Instrument to Fight Corruption: A Study on the Performance of the Federal Criminal Expert in Operation Lava-Jato

22 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2025

Leticia Martins Medeiros

Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) - Department of Economics and Accounting

Igor Marçal Meireles

Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul - UFRGS

Date Written: July 22, 2023

Abstract

Objective: This research aimed to describe the performance of the Federal Accounting Criminal Expert in instrumentalizing the anti-corruption processes during Operation Lava-Jato. Method and approach: This is a qualitative, descriptive, and documental study. Interviews were conducted with two Federal Criminal Experts to obtain the data, and their accounting reports were analyzed. The documentation used for this research was three accounting-financial expert reports, prepared by federal criminal experts in the technical-scientific sector of the Regional Superintendence (SR) of the DPF in the State of Paraná. In addition, two semi-structured interviews were carried out with two federal criminal experts from Area 1 (Accounting Sciences or Economic Sciences), who were responsible for preparing the referred reports. It should be noted that the content of the interview questions was prepared in accordance with the theoretical framework. Main results: This study proved that Forensic Accounting is important in combating corruption and that the performance of the criminal expert is fundamental in instrumentalizing the evidence within the Operation. Through the analysis of the reports and interviews with the experts, these professionals are responsible for clarifying the truth of the facts based on the evidence and material traces, results of crimes investigated in the course of the Operation. Contributions: In different situations, the expert reports were sufficient to evidence financial crimes, proving and describing the offenses committed by criminal organizations, instrumentalizing the accusations offered by the Public Ministry. Originality and relevance: Unlike previous research, this study refers to the objective contribution of criminal accounting expertise and the performance of forensic experts, identifying the instruments they use. It also contributes to students and accounting professionals, as it presents a growing demand and new career paths.

Keywords: Contabilidade Forense, Perícia contábil criminal, Perito, Corrupção, Fraude Forensic Accounting, Criminal accounting expertise, Expert, Corruption, Fraud

Suggested Citation:

Medeiros, Leticia Martins and Meireles, Igor Marçal, Contabilidade Forense como Instrumento de Combate à Corrupção: um Estudo Sobre A Atuação Do Perito Criminal Federal Na Operação Lava-Jato 
Forensic Accounting as an Instrument to Fight Corruption: A Study on the Performance of the Federal Criminal Expert in Operation Lava-Jato
(July 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5226549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5226549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Brasília União
Posted: 1941
Brasil
Dispõe sobre as perícias oficiais e dá outras providencias. Diário Oficial da União, Brasília, 18 set Posted: 2009
Brasil
Reorganiza as classes da Carreira Policial Federal, fixa a remuneracão cargos que as integram e dá outras providencias. Diário Oficial da União, Brasília Posted: 1996-03-18
Z A Brei
Corrupção: dificuldades para definição e para um consenso
Revista De Administração Pública , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 64 - 77 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
454
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies