Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Blockchain Forensics Investigations in the Digital Ecosystem (with a focus on Cryptocurrency)

21 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Harminder Gill

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 22, 2024

Abstract

Blockchain forensics is the process of investigating and analysing transactions on a blockchain to track the flow of funds and detect illegal activities. Blockchain forensics is also referred to as blockchain analytics or blockchain intelligence. Blockchain forensics is a subset of the wider and actively evolving field of digital forensics. It is complex but increasingly important, as blockchain technology gains more adoption, not just in digital assets 1 and cryptocurrencies, but also in other fields where the blockchain use case is gaining momentum. This paper discusses the expanding use cases of blockchain technology. Then it focuses on the growing importance of blockchain forensic investigations as a growing field of specialty and as a function within any organisation that has touch points with digital assets and cryptocurrencies, seen from the following perspectives: (1) Compliance with regulations on anti-money laundering (AML) and combating the financing of terrorism (CFT) and avoiding sanctions violations ('Crime Prevention'). This is relevant to financial institutions and virtual asset service providers (VASPs) (collectively referred to as 'Financial Intermediaries') who are on-boarding customers with crypto assets. (2) Investigating crime and recovering assets ('Crime Investigation'). This is relevant to the tracing of cryptocurrencies stolen or used for illicit purposes, and ultimately tracing the criminal, or companies who are victims of hacking or ransomware attacks, having to make payments to in cryptocurrencies. As blockchain and cryptocurrencies continue to gain traction, the future of blockchain forensics will increasingly focus on developing expertise in tracking and analysing blockchain transactions to combat cryptocurrency-related crimes. We will see a steep rise in specialist tools that track and trace cryptocurrency transactions with many advanced functionalities to link blockchain transactions to illicit activities, as well as university courses and other certifications to educate and widen the pool of experts in this niche and exciting field.

Keywords: Blockchain Technology, Blockchain Forensics, Blockchain Analytics, Crypto Assets, Digital Assets, Virtual Assets, Cryptocurrencies, Investigations

Suggested Citation:

Gill, Harminder, The Importance of Blockchain Forensics Investigations in the Digital Ecosystem (with a focus on Cryptocurrency) (November 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5237438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5237438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,976
RANK
390,788
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies