Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Identify and Avoid Financial Fraud

3 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Javid Tahir

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 11, 2021

Abstract

This paper explores the nature of financial fraud, highlights common fraud schemes, and outlines practical techniques to detect and prevent such crimes within organizations. Using the Enron scandal as a case study, it emphasizes the importance of audit independence, strong internal controls, and an ethical corporate culture. These lessons are particularly relevant for regulatory environments like the United States, where transparency and financial integrity are national priorities. 

Declaration of Interest

The author declares no conflict of interest. This study was conducted independently without any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

Ethics Approval

Ethics approval was not required for this study, as it does not involve human participants, patient data, or sensitive personal information. The case study is based on organizational and professional experience with all proprietary or confidential information anonymized or generalized.

Funder Statement

This research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors. It was self-initiated and developed based on the author's professional expertise and project experience.

Suggested Citation:

Tahir, Javid, How to Identify and Avoid Financial Fraud (May 11, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5241049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5241049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
S
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. -Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) Posted: 2002
P M Healy , K G Palepu
The Fall of Enron
Journal of Economic Perspectives Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
114
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies