Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory Auditing Reduce Fraud? Evidence from the Swedish Auditing Reform

55 Pages Posted: 8 May 2025

Irina Alexeyeva

Umea School of Business and Economics

Peter Frii

Umea School of Business and Economics

Ann-Sofie Henrikson

Umeå University - Department of Law

Annina H. Persson

Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) - Department of Real Estate Management

Oscar Stålnacke

Umea School of Business and Economics

Stefan Sundgren

Umea School of Business and Economics, Umeå University; University of Vaasa

Date Written: May 08, 2025

Abstract

Based on the argument by policymakers that mandatory auditing prevents fraud, we examine the association between auditing and suspected accounting fraud, tax fraud and other fraudulent behaviors in failing privately held micro firms. Univariate results and regressions without controls for characteristics of the entrepreneurs show positive associations between opting out of auding and fraud. However, the associations are insignificant when we use an instrumental variable and a difference-indifference research design to control for confounding variables. With respect to auditing mandates, our results do not support the view that audit mandates reduce fraud. Our findings suggest, on the contrary, that audit mandates may suppress information about an entrepreneur's type, which is revealed by the choice to opt-out of auditing.

Keywords: Mandatory Auditing, Fraud, Auditing Reform

Suggested Citation:

Alexeyeva, Irina and Frii, Peter and Henrikson, Ann-Sofie and Persson, Annina H. and Stålnacke, Oscar and Sundgren, Stefan, Does Mandatory Auditing Reduce Fraud? Evidence from the Swedish Auditing Reform (May 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5246604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5246604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Audit exemption thresholds in Europe
References: Accountancy Europe Posted: 2020
T Adams , J Krishnan , J Krishnan
Client influence and auditor independence revisited: Evidence from auditor resignations
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 40 , issue 5 Posted: 2021
T Alalehto
White collar criminals: The state of knowledge
The Open Criminology Journal , volume 8 , p. 28 - 35 Posted: 2015
T Alalehto , R Azarian
When white collar criminals turn to fatal violence: The impact of narcissism and psychopathy
Journal of Investigative Psychology and Offender Profiling , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 226 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
RANK
856,579
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies