Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Control and Accounting Information Systems

16 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

Aliya Ramadani

Universitas Muhammadiyah Palopo

Date Written: May 09, 2025

Abstract

The rapid and continuous changes in the business environment increase the need for reliable accounting information systems (AIS) to support corporate competitiveness. Dependence on information systems carries various risks, such as natural disasters, hardware or software failures, and errors and intentional acts. To overcome this, internal control becomes very important. Internal control includes preventive, detective, and corrective controls, which are implemented in the form of general and application controls. The control system is also supported by concepts such as belief systems, boundary systems, diagnostic control systems, and interactive control systems. Frameworks such as COBIT and COSO provide guidance for effective IT governance and control. In the internal environment of an organization, factors such as employees, management, shareholders, capital, and corporate culture affect internal control. Determining strategic, operational, reporting, and compliance objectives is an important part of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). Risk evaluation involves measuring likelihood and impact, as well as costbenefit analysis to determine effective control actions. Controls can be implemented or risks can be accepted, shared, or avoided according to the company's risk tolerance.

Keywords: Digital Fraud, Computer Security, Cybercrime, Social Engineering

Suggested Citation:

Ramadani, Aliya,

Control and Accounting Information Systems

(May 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5248994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5248994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
490
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Information Systems & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies