Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Role of Accounting Information Systems in Improving the Efficiency and Quality of Financial Reports




17 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

Nurul Nurul

Universitas Muhammadiyah Palopo

Date Written: May 07, 2025

Abstract

Digital transformation in the business world demands a financial information management system that is efficient, accurate, and responsive to managerial needs. Accounting Information Systems (AIS) are present as a strategic solution to manage financial transactions systematically and produce reports that are relevant to decision making. This study aims to examine the contribution of AIS in improving operational efficiency and the quality of financial reports in various entities, including large companies, government agencies, and MSMEs. The method used is a library research on 30 national scientific articles published in 2020-2025 which were analyzed qualitatively. The results of the study show that optimal implementation of AIS accelerates the reporting process, improves data accuracy, and strengthens internal control. However, the success of AIS implementation is not only determined by technology, but is also greatly influenced by the readiness of human resources, organizational culture, and management support. A holistic approach is needed so that the benefits of AIS can be optimized in modern accounting practices.

Keywords: Accounting Information System, Efficiency, Financial Reports, Decision Making

Suggested Citation:

Nurul, Nurul,

The Role of Accounting Information Systems in Improving the Efficiency and Quality of Financial Reports


(May 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5248962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5248962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,059
RANK
833,930
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies