Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Automated Retrieval and Categorization of SEC Data Using Python

17 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Annika Bonrath

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Nils Gehlen

University of Duisburg-Essen

Date Written: January 09, 2025

Abstract

Timely and accurate detection of fraudulent activities is important for understanding patterns and trends and implementing preventive measures. Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs) are frequently used as a proxy for fraudulent financial reporting in accounting literature. However, manual processing makes analyzing these documents time-consuming and error-prone. Recognizing the standardized nature of AAERs, this paper presents an innovative automated approach using Python. Our methodology enhances the process of downloading AAER files from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) website, introduces a structured categorization approach, and facilitates the alignment of the resulting AAER data with information from the EDGAR database. Our findings show improvements in the efficiency and accuracy of data access and categorization. The paper contributes to the field by providing a replicable, scalable approach for AAER retrieval and systematic categorization, enhancing the capacity of researchers to uncover insights into fraudulent activities and inform regulatory practices. Data availability: The datasets generated and analyzed during the study are publicly available.

Keywords: data analytics, forensic, python, SEC, automation

Suggested Citation:

Bonrath, Annika and Eulerich, Marc and Gehlen, Nils, Automated Retrieval and Categorization of SEC Data Using Python (January 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5255852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5255852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
C Albrecht , D Holland , R Malagueño , S Dolan , S Tzafrir
The role of power in financial statement fraud schemes
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 803 - 813 Posted: 2015
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) & Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). 2023. Fraud risk management guide: Executive summary , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
F Aubert , J J Wang , G Grudnitski
Convergence consensus analyst earnings estimates and option pricing in modeling material accounting misstatements
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 134 - 156 Posted: 2019
M D Baugh , R Schmardebeck
Auditor style and common disclosure issues: Evidence from SEC comment letters
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 5 , p. 61 - 97 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
539
RANK
572,087
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies