Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Auditor Ethics, Audit Experience, Auditor Independence, Audit Fees, Auditor Competency, and Audit Tenure on Audit Quality in Banking Sector of Pakistan

International Journal of Novel Research and Development, Volume 9, issue 10. Pp. b75-b85

11 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Amna Tariq

National College of Business Administration and Economics

Muhammad Rehan Khan

National College Of Business Administration & Economics

Muhammad Arslan Saeed

National College Of Business Administration & Economics

Abdul Rehman

National College of Business Administration & Economics

Date Written: October 14, 2024

Abstract

This research tries to identify the audit-related factors affecting the firms' Audit Quality: Audit Fees, Audit Tenure, Auditor Ethics, Auditor Experience, Auditor Competency, and Auditor Independence. Data were collected using a structured questionnaire from 200 participants, who include company employees and bank employees, as well as practicing auditors. For relationships between independent variables and Audit Quality, Pearson correlation and multiple regression analyses were applied. Outcome variables are measured as the net effects of Audit Fees, Audit Tenure, Auditor Competency, and Auditor Independence on Audit Quality: high fees, tenure, competency, and independence. We used the software IBM SPSS for multiple regression analysis explained 35.2% of variation in Audit Quality, which generally is interpreted as moderate strength. Using multiple linear regression analysis the results show that audit quality has strong relationship with audit fees, audit tenure, auditor independency and auditor competency. And the relationship of auditor ethics and audit experience is also significantly positive with audit quality.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Auditor Tenure, Auditor Ethics, Auditor Experience, Auditor Independency, Auditor Competency And Audit Quality, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Tariq, Amna and Khan, Muhammad Rehan and Saeed, Muhammad Arslan and Rehman, Abdul, The Effect of Auditor Ethics, Audit Experience, Auditor Independence, Audit Fees, Auditor Competency, and Audit Tenure on Audit Quality in Banking Sector of Pakistan (October 14, 2024). International Journal of Novel Research and Development, Volume 9, issue 10. Pp. b75-b85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5256160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5256160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Setiawan Adela , A Djajadikerta , H
The influence of audit competence and auditor performance on audit quality according to auditor's perception
Journal of Social and Economics Research , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 577 - 582 Posted: 2024
S A Alsughayer
Impact of Auditor Competence, Integrity, and Ethics on Audit Quality in Saudi Arabia
Open Journal of Accounting , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2021
S A Aly , A Diab , S I Abdelazim
Audit quality, firm value and audit fees: does audit tenure matter? Egyptian evidence
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , p. 11 - 19 Posted: 2023
C Ananda , F Faisal
Audit Fees, Audit Tenure, Auditor Industry Specialization, Audit Firm Size, and Audit Quality: Evidence from Indonesian Listed Companies , volume 10 , p. 2013 - 2030 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
302
RANK
848,823
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Consumer Financial Fraud eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies