Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Forensic Accounting Practices and Reliability of Financial Statements Among Manufacturing Firms in Kenya

109 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2025

ruth kombe

Technical University of Mombasa

Date Written: May 20, 2025

Abstract

Prior data indicate that only 62% of firms in Kenya provided verifiable data during external audits, while 28% failed to reconcile financial record discrepancies, and 41% excluded key information such as contingent liabilities and related-party transactions. It is in this regard that this study will investigate the effect of forensic accounting practices on the reliability of financial statements among manufacturing firms in Kenya, with firm size as a moderating variable. Specifically, it examines the influence of internal control accounting, fraud risk assessment, forensic audits, and financial data protection. The study is anchored on agency theory, fraud diamond theory, fraud triangle theory, information security theory, and transaction cost theory. Adopting a positivist philosophy and a cross-sectional and correlational research design, the study will utilize structured questionnaires as the primary data collection instrument. The study will use stratified random sampling technique and Cochran’s formulae will be used to determine the sample size of 283 that will be considered for this study. Data will be collected using structured questionnaires, drawn from a target population of 1,072 manufacturing firms listed in the KAM 2024 directory, with focus on firms located in Nairobi and Mombasa counties Data will be analyzed using both descriptive and inferential statistical methods and data will be presented using tables, charts, and graphs. The data collection procedure will entail requesting an introduction letter from the Department of Business Administration at the Technical University of Mombasa. Subsequently, the researcher will proceed to apply for research authorization from the National Commission of Science, Technology, and Innovation (NACOSTI). The study will employ multiple regression analysis to examine both the direct effects of forensic accounting practices and the moderating role of firm size. By addressing methodological and contextual gaps—especially the underexplored role of firm size, this research aims to generate actionable insights for researchers and academicians, practical significance, economic and social significance and policymakers. The findings are expected to inform strategic reforms in financial governance, enhance fraud detection frameworks, and promote transparent financial reporting practices in Kenya’s manufacturing sector, thereby advancing the country’s Vision 2030 industrialization agenda. 

Keywords: forensic accounting

Ethics Approval

RE: REQUEST FOR PARTICIPATION IN A RESEARCH STUDY I am Ruth Dama Kombe, a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) candidate in Business Administration at the Technical University of Mombasa. I am currently undertaking a research study titled “Forensic Accounting Practices and Reliability of Financial Statements among Manufacturing Firms in Kenya.” This study is part of the requirements for the award of the PhD degree. The findings will offer insights for enhancing financial transparency and fraud prevention mechanisms in the sector. Your organization has been selected as part of a scientifically determined sample of 283 firms from the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (2024) directory. I therefore kindly request your consent to allow the Finance Manager or a knowledgeable officer to participate in the study by responding to a structured questionnaire. The information collected will be used strictly for academic purposes and will be treated with the utmost confidentiality. Thank you in advance for your time and cooperation. Yours sincerely, Ruth Dama Kombe PhD Candidate – Business Administration Technical University of Mombasa

Suggested Citation:

kombe, ruth,

Forensic Accounting Practices and Reliability of Financial Statements Among Manufacturing Firms in Kenya

(May 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5262561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5262561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
223 References
K E Abdelrahim
IFRS Implementation and Compliance among Egyptian Companies: A Sectoral Analysis
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 367 - 386 Posted: 2020
S P Abdullayeva
Agency theory and the digital economy , p. 120 - 132 Posted: 2022
Acca
Africa's Talent Challenge in Accountancy
Global Accounting Trends Report Posted: 2022
B Adam , J Heiling , T Meglitsch
The principle of prudence in public sector accounting-a comparative analysis of cautious and asymmetric prudence
Public Money & Management , volume 42 , issue 7 , p. 521 - 529 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,554
RANK
418,259
223 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies