Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysing the Post Office Scandal from a Cyber Security Perspective

26 Pages Posted: 27 May 2025

Harjinder Singh Lallie

University of Warwick

Abstract

The Post Office Horizon scandal is one of the most severe miscarriages of justice in modern British history, rooted in the deployment and blind trust of a faulty IT system that led to the wrongful prosecution of hundreds of subpostmasters. The study maps the failures across domains such as IT systems design, cyber security, digital forensics, forensic accounting, and governance.We categorise the systemic breakdown into key failure areas: software bugs and poor design, untested patches, inadequate logging, flawed audit mechanisms, and failures in incident response, and examine how basic principles of information assurance and accountability were neglected. In particular, we focus on failures in patch governance, silent transaction processing errors, missing or corrupted audit trails, and the ability for remote changes without traceability—all of which undermined the integrity of digital evidence used in court.Unlike many previous contributions, we leverage evidence from the Post Office Horizon Public Inquiry dataset, which includes witness testimony, technical documents, and audit trails. Analysis of the inquiry dataset further reveals communication gaps and the suppression of dissent, showing how structural and social failures enabled technical ones to persist unchecked.We propose corrective measures that should have been deployed, including robust patch auditing, enhanced logging and feedback systems, secure software development frameworks, and embedded governance reforms. By framing Horizon as a socio-technical failure rather than a purely technical one, we offer insights into how large-scale digital systems must be designed and governed when they underpin legal and financial accountability.Possibly the biggest contribution from this work is our outline of the range of research opportunities the Horizon IT Public Inquiry dataset offers to researchers in many domains. This dataset offers opportunities similar to that when the Enron dataset was published in March 2003.

Keywords: Post Office Horizon Scandal, Cyber security Failures, Digital Forensics, IT Governance, Forensic Accounting, Patch Management, Software

Suggested Citation:

Lallie, Harjinder Singh, Analysing the Post Office Scandal from a Cyber Security Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5271375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5271375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Ross Anderson
What went wrong with horizon: learning from the post office trial. Bentham's Gaze Posted: 2021
Good practice guide for digital evidence Posted: 2014-05-08
Gerald Barnes
Witn09870100 gerald barnes -first witness statement , p. 2025 - 2025 Posted: 2021
Gerald Barnes
Witn09870200 -gerald barnes -second witness statement , p. 2025 - 2025 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
648
RANK
627,127
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Criminal Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies