Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Fraud Detection in Rich-Yet-Noisy Financial Graph

17 Pages Posted: 29 May 2025

Shiqi Wang

Nanjing University

Zhibo Zhang

Nanjing University

Libing Fang

Nanjing University - School of Management and Engineering

Cam TU Nguyen

Nanjing University

Wenzhong Li

Nanjing University

Abstract

Corporate fraud detection aims to automatically recognize companies that conduct wrongful activities such as fraudulent financial statements or illegal insider trading. \torevise{Previous learning-based methods fail to effectively integrate rich interactions in the company network.} To close this gap, we collect 18-year financial records in China to form three graph datasets with fraud labels. We analyze the characteristics of the financial graphs, highlighting two pronounced issues: (1) \textit{information overload}: the dominance of (noisy) non-company nodes over company nodes hinders the message-passing process in Graph Convolution Networks (GCN); and (2) \textit{hidden fraud}: there exists a large percentage of possible undetected violations in the collected data. The hidden fraud problem will introduce noisy labels in the training dataset and compromise fraud detection results.  To handle such challenges, we propose a novel graph-based method, namely, Knowledge-enhanced GCN with Robust Two-stage Learning (\modelname), which leverages Knowledge Graph Embeddings to mitigate the information overload and effectively learns rich representations.  The proposed model adopts a two-stage learning method to enhance robustness against hidden frauds.Extensive experimental results not only confirm the importance of interactions but also show the superiority of {\modelname} over a number of strong baselines in terms of fraud detection effectiveness and robustness.

Keywords: Financial fraud detection, Graph Neural Network, Knowlegde graph, Noisy label learning, Regulatory technology

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Shiqi and Zhang, Zhibo and Fang, Libing and Nguyen, Cam TU and Li, Wenzhong, Corporate Fraud Detection in Rich-Yet-Noisy Financial Graph. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5273276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5273276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
259
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies