Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting the Fraud in Corporate Financial Statements Using Artificial Neural Networks

12 Pages Posted: 30 May 2025

Mohammad Nikhalat Jahromi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zakieh Shooshtarian

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ardalan Feili

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Fraud is one of the most critical issues in accounting and financial statement auditing of companies. The increasing attention to fraud in recent years reflects the growing awareness of its detrimental effects. In this regard, the aim of this study is to determine the impact of CEO duality, CEO expertise, and internal controls on predicting the likelihood of financial statement fraud using an artificial neural network.The research population consists of all companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange, from which all active listed companies in six industries "Automobile and Auto Parts Manufacturing" , "Cement, Lime, and Plaster" , "Basic Metals" , "Chemical Products", "Food and Beverages (excluding Sugar) " and "Pharmaceuticals and Medical Products" were selected as the sample. The study period spans five years, from 2018 to 2022.The required data were collected through the review of meeting minutes and board reports. Using a multilayer perceptron model, the impact of each variable in predicting the likelihood of financial statement fraud was assessed. The findings indicate that the artificial neural network technique and neural network-based modeling achieved an accuracy rate of 86.75% in correctly classifying the studied sample. Specifically, the influence of CEO duality, CEO expertise, and internal control was found to be 34.4%, 30.1%, and 35.4%, respectively.These results highlight the almost equal importance of all three factors—duality, expertise, and internal control. Consequently, companies are advised to pay close attention to CEO characteristics to prevent fraud. Additionally, it is recommended that firms enhance internal control mechanisms by hiring expert accountants and implementing appropriate internal controls to improve the accuracy and efficiency of accounting information systems and prevent the misuse of assets and resources.

Keywords: Fraud, CEO duality, CEO expertise, Internal control, Neural network

Suggested Citation:

Nikhalat Jahromi, Mohammad and Shooshtarian, Zakieh and Feili, Ardalan, Predicting the Fraud in Corporate Financial Statements Using Artificial Neural Networks. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5274963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5274963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
L P Andrade , G T Salazar , C L L Calegário , S S Silva
Corporate governance: An analysis of the board's relationship with market value and firm performance in Brazil , volume 10 , p. 4 - 31 Posted: 2009
K Asharoznia , A Pouragha Jan , S H Nasl Mousavi
A novel approach to predicting fraud in financial statements (comparison of traditional, simulation, and modern models)
Accounting and Auditing Research , volume 15 , issue 57 , p. 142 - 143 Posted: 2023
K Athami , H Khajavi
The emergence and development of fraud auditing
Accountant Monthly Posted: 2011
V Barker , G Mueller
CEO characteristics and firm R&D spending
Management Science , volume 48 , issue 6 , p. 782 - 801 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
224
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies