Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conducting a Fraud Risk Assessment as a Course Project

21 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025 Last revised: 6 Jun 2025

Jennifer Sustersic Stevens

Ohio University

Aaron Wilson

Ohio University

David Stott

Ohio University

Jack Nece

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 06, 2025

Abstract

This paper provides a framework for conducting a fraud risk assessment as a course project in an upper-level undergraduate or graduate accounting course. The case is designed to facilitate a live client project. Alternatively, the materials may be used as a standalone instructional case, as it summarizes an example client scenario and includes sample data. The case introduces students to a three-step process for conducting a fraud risk assessment, the ACFE’s Fraud Risk Assessment Tool, and common fraud data analytics tests. Students must gain an understanding of the business and operating environment, formulate questions for an initial interview, submit a data request to the client, conduct data analytics, and prepare a report summarizing their procedures, findings and recommendations. While the case example is a craft brewery, the materials are applicable to most small businesses and customizable to a variety of student audiences. This case is suitable for upper-level classes in fraud examination or forensic accounting, advanced auditing, internal auditing, or data analytics. 

Keywords: instructional case, fraud risk assessment, fraud examination, forensics, forensic accounting, fraud, auditing, internal controls

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Sustersic Stevens, Jennifer and Wilson, Aaron and Stott, David and Nece, Jack, Conducting a Fraud Risk Assessment as a Course Project (June 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5284241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5284241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
R B Lanza , J T Wells , R B Lanza , J T Wells
Proactively detecting occupational fraud using computer audit reports. Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation Posted: 2004
Pllc Plante Moran
Columbus Zoo and Aquarium Forensic Analysis Posted: 2021-08-18
D Richards , B Melancon , J Ratley
Managing the business risk of fraud: A practical guide. Sponsored by: The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) Posted: 2009
Joseph T Wells
Principles of Fraud Examination , volume 4 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
196
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies