Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Performance During the COVID-19 Pandemic

International Conference on Digital Transformation, Fintech, and Business Innovation, Al-Ahliyya Amman University, Jordon, 26-27 October 2025

4 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025 Last revised: 22 Jul 2025

Omar Saeed

University of Sharjah

Mohammed Amjad

University of Sharjah

Abdulla Suliman

University of Sharjah

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Héla Miniaoui

Lusail University

Dr Magdi El-Bannany

Umm Al Quwain University; Ain Shams University

Muhammad AlShurideh

University of Sharjah

Alhashmi Aboubaker Lasyoud

University of South Carolina at Aiken

Date Written: June 14, 2025

Abstract

This paper explores the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the internal audit functions in the emerging market of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). We used semi-structured, in-depth interviews to achieve the study objectives. The findings show that COVID-19 disrupted internal audit efficiency and productivity in the UAE due to limited physical access and remote work challenges. This paper helps to understand and focus on how the internal audit practices were affected by COVID-19.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, Performance, COVID-19, Emerging Market

Suggested Citation:

Saeed, Omar and Amjad, Mohammed and Suliman, Abdulla and Elkelish, Walaa and Miniaoui, Héla and El-Bannany, Dr Magdi and AlShurideh, Muhammad and Lasyoud, Alhashmi Aboubaker, Internal Audit Performance During the COVID-19 Pandemic (June 14, 2025). International Conference on Digital Transformation, Fintech, and Business Innovation, Al-Ahliyya Amman University, Jordon, 26-27 October 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5294664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5294664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
K Albitar , A M Gerged , H Kikhia , K Hussainey
Auditing in times of social distancing: The effect of COVID-19 on auditing quality
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 61 Posted: 2020
N Almarzooqi , M Shah , A Mohammed , W Elkelish , A Jaafar , D M El-Bannany
The Determinants of Customer Profitability Analysis During the COVID-19 Crisis. Working paper
The International Conference on Business and Digital Technology (ICBDT2024) Posted: 2024-11-27
K Alshehhi , J Alteniji , S Alshamsi , W W Elkelish , I H Iwhish
The extent of awareness of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards in the emerging market of the United Arab Emirates
International Journal of Economics and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 210 - 228 Posted: 2023
N Alsuwaidi , A Houti , W W Elkelish , M El-Bannany
The Impact of Pandemics on External Audit Practices
Asian Journal of Business and Accounting , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 144 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies