Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Social Identification and Expert Witness Credibility on Jurors’ Auditor Negligence Verdicts

37 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2025

Paul Black

Auburn University

Duane Brandon

Auburn University

Travis Holt

Auburn University

James H. Long

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Jennifer M Mueller

Auburn University

Abstract

This paper explores the extent to which jurors’ social identification with litigants (plaintiff and defendant) and expert witness credibility impact auditor negligence judgments. To investigate these issues, we conducted an experiment in which 316 mock jurors evaluated the extent to which an auditor was negligent and thus held liable for an audit failure. We predict and find that jurors’ perceptions of auditor negligence, and the proportion of negligence verdicts they return, are higher when they socially identify more with the plaintiff than the defendant. We also find that expert witness credibility affects juror perceptions of auditor negligence, and the proportion of negligence verdicts they return, but only when social identification with the plaintiff is lower than with the defendant (that is, social identification moderates the effects of expert witness credibility on juror judgments). Our results have important implications for the accounting profession, regulators, policymakers, and the academy, because they provide initial evidence about the impact of jurors’ social identification with each litigant on audit litigation outcomes and on the extent to which expert witness testimony influences audit litigation outcomes.

Keywords: Social identification, expert witness, auditor negligence, audit litigation

Suggested Citation:

Black, Paul and Brandon, Duane and Holt, Travis and Long, James H. and Mueller, Jennifer M, The Effects of Social Identification and Expert Witness Credibility on Jurors’ Auditor Negligence Verdicts. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5298239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5298239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
214
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies