Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Accounting Information Quality on Companies' Cost of Equity Capital, Considering the Role of Information Asymmetry

ICEFR Conference Proceedings, Melbourne 2019, Paper ID: RW-ICEFRMELB-06119-12786

6 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2025 Last revised: 20 Jun 2025

Mohammadarian Ghahremanizahraie

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 06, 2019

Abstract

The present research examines the effect of accounting information quality on companies' cost of equity capital, considering the role of information asymmetry. Discretionary accruals serve as indicators of accounting information quality, while the CAPM model measures the cost of equity capital. Information asymmetry is evaluated based on the average annual difference between bid and ask prices. This research covers a five-year period from the beginning of 1391 to the end of 1395 (2012-2017) and analyzes 91 firms listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange. Multivariate regression models are employed, incorporating three control variables: beta (β), return on assets (ROA), and profitability ratio. The findings reveal a negative relationship between accounting information quality and the cost of equity capital. Additionally, information asymmetry directly impacts this relationship.

Keywords: Accounting Information Quality, Cost of Equity Capital, Information Asymmetry, Discretionary Accruals

Suggested Citation:

Ghahremanizahraie, Mohammadarian, The Effect of Accounting Information Quality on Companies' Cost of Equity Capital, Considering the Role of Information Asymmetry (November 06, 2019). ICEFR Conference Proceedings, Melbourne 2019, Paper ID: RW-ICEFRMELB-06119-12786, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5314048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5314048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Abraham ; Abbasi , Mohsen Bazrafshan
Investigate the relationship between earnings quality, voluntary disclosure, asymmetry of information with the cost of equity in companies admitted to the Tehran Stock Exchange Posted: 1395
B K Akins , J Ng , R S Verdi
Investor Competition over Information and the Pricing of Information Asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 Posted: 2012
C Armstrong , J Core , D Taylor , R Verrecchia
When does information asymmetry affect the cost of capital?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Kiyomars Bigler , Gholamreza Rezaei , Zahra Old
Influence of Information Asymmetry on Stock Liquidity and Capital Cost
Second International Management and Accounting Conference Posted: 1396
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
178
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies