Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
JP Morgan and the Case of Synthetic Data

21 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2025

Danielle Dunne

Rider University

Kathleen Dunne

Rider University

Devon Baranek

Rider University

Date Written: April 02, 2024

Abstract

This case is based on a real-world example of how synthetic data was used by a company to commit an alleged fraud during the due diligence phase of merger negotiations and the subsequent coverup of the initial fraud. JP Morgan Chase (JPMC) acquired the Frank Company, a startup fintech company for $175 million in 2021. The main asset of Frank was its Customer List that allegedly included the contact information for over 4.25 million college-age students. JPMC wanted to increase its customer base in that demographic, which made the acquisition very attractive. By 2023 Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JPMC, described the acquisition as a "huge mistake" (Reuters, 2023A). The case details the alleged scheme to manufacture synthetic data during the due diligence phase of the merger, and the subsequent coverup of the initial alleged fraud after the acquisition was completed. Case questions cover the fraud, ethical issues and the inherent problems of verifying synthetic data. Intangible asset valuation and alternative management growth strategies are also explored. The case is appropriate for undergraduate and graduate courses in Accounting, Auditing, Ethics, Strategic Management and Information Systems and contributes to the literature regarding fraud, ethics, intangible assets, the use of synthetic data, and management growth strategies.

Keywords: synthetic data, intangible assets, customer lists, due diligence, management growth strategies, fraud

Suggested Citation:

Dunne, Danielle and Dunne, Kathleen and Baranek, Devon, JP Morgan and the Case of Synthetic Data (April 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5336310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5336310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Acxiom
Posted: 2024
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE), 2024. Why Do People Commit Fraud
C Atkins
Startup founder Charlie Javice to go to trial in 2024 over alleged JPMorgan fraud
NBC News Posted: 2023-11-09
R Barker , A Lennard , S Penman , A Teixeira
Accounting for Intangible Assets: Suggested Solutions
Accounting and Business Research , volume 52 , issue 6 , p. 601 - 630 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
504
RANK
785,362
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies