Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Fourth-Quarter Earnings Effect

59 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2025

Oliver Binz

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Martin M. Kapons

INSEAD

Date Written: July 10, 2025

Abstract

We document that firms report lower earnings in the fourth quarter than in interim quarters. The effect (1) is robust to controlling for firms’ immediate business environment at a given point in time and time-invariant factors, (2) persists across time and the earnings distribution, (3) concentrates in accrual expense estimates and is absent (weakened) in sales in and cash flows (working capital accruals), (4) and is pronounced for smaller firms. We present evidence consistent (inconsistent) with the hypothesis that low investment in cost estimation and internal information systems (auditor conservatism, earnings management, and integral reporting) is driving the effect. Analysts do not fully account for the fourth-quarter effect and are systematically more negatively surprised in the fourth quarter. Stock returns around negative earnings announcement surprises fall less and reverse more quickly in the fourth quarter than in interim quarters. A trading strategy exploiting these patterns yields abnormal returns.

Keywords: Seasonality, Internal Information Quality

JEL Classification: C52, G14, G17, M41

Suggested Citation:

Binz, Oliver and Kapons, Martin M., The Fourth-Quarter Earnings Effect (July 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5346432 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5346432
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C G Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity Washing. Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1661 - 1709 Posted: 2024
S Basu
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
S Basu , L.-S Hwang , C.-L Jan
Auditor Conservatism and Quarterly Earnings Posted: 2002
Auditor Conservatism and Analysts' Fourth Quarter Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Finance Research , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 211 - 235 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
426
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,586
RANK
156,807
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies