Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Audited Accounting Estimates Too Risky? Evidence from Behavioral Economics and Discretionary Accruals

46 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2025

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Minlei Ye

University of Toronto

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

This paper summarizes evidence on auditors' ability to provide assurance on discretionary accruals. Extensive prior research in behavioral economics documents large risks associated with management forecasts of future events affecting their firms and incorporated in accounting estimates. We estimate auditors' ability to offset these risks in discretionary accruals since accruals also involve management estimates about the effect of future events on financial reporting. We find that that a commonly used estimate of the aggregate of audited accruals have high risk of material misstatement similar to what has been suggested in behavioral economics research for unaudited accruals. This finding suggests that auditors have difficulty in correcting management errors in judgment involving predictions of future events and in providing reasonable assurance on accruals. As a result, auditor ability to detect fraudulent financial reporting, as well as to capture the economic substance of auditee firm activities, may be weakened. This has an impact on the ongoing debate concerning the proper social role of auditing that should concern auditors, management, regulators, and standard setters.

Keywords: Audited Accounting Estimates, Materiality, Risk, Truthfulness, Economic Substance, Fair Presentation Auditing, Compliance Auditing

Suggested Citation:

Smieliauskas, Wally and Ye, Minlei, Are Audited Accounting Estimates Too Risky? Evidence from Behavioral Economics and Discretionary Accruals (June 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5349240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5349240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Aicpa
Auditing Estimates and Other Soft Accounting Information. AICPA. New York AICPA
Analytical Procedures. AICPA. New York AICPA. 2017. Guide to Audit Data Analytics Posted: 1998
R D Allen , D R Hermanson , T M Kozloski , R J Ramsey
Auditor risk assessment: Insights from the academic literature
Accounting Horizons , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 157 - 178 Posted: 2006
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
S Asay , P Hribar , C Quinto
Paper presented at University of Toronto, Rotman School of Management on Dec
The Precision of Point Forecasts Posted: 2023-11-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
249
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies