Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Audit Quality of Listed Firms in Nigeria: Moderating Role of Audit Committee Gender

Posted: 31 Jul 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Elsie Ebele Edochie

Nigerian Defence Academy

Samuel Gambo Joshua

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: July 17, 2025

Abstract

This study set out to examine shareholding structures and audit quality with the moderating role of audit committee gend er. The shareholding structure (independent variable) is proxied by block-holder ownership, foreign ownership, managerial ownership and percentage of women in the board , while, the dependent variable (audit quality) was measured by the big 4). The study population was the 148 listed firms in Nigeria who were in operation from January 2012 to December 2021 and a sample size of 74 firms were selected and their data analyzed. M ulti regression analysis was employed with the aid of STATA in testing hypotheses of the study. Findings of the study provide empirical evidence that block-holder ownership has a significant negative effect on audit quality, while foreign ownership and managerial ownership have significant positive effects on audit quality , it was also revealed that the increased women in the board improved the quality of the audit so it recommends a reduced block-holder ownership, increased foreign, managerial ownerships increase of number of women in the board for improved audit qualities among Nigerian listed expertise, while, managerial ownership will align the interest of management with those of the shareholders.

Keywords: Audit quality, block-holder ownership, foreign ownership

Declaration of Interest

No conflict of interest.

Funder Statement

Self by the authors.

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege and Edochie, Elsie Ebele and Joshua, Samuel Gambo, Ownership Structure and Audit Quality of Listed Firms in Nigeria: Moderating Role of Audit Committee Gender (July 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5355428
 Not Available for Download
39 References
E E Abel , F O Okafor
Local corporate ownership and capital structure decisions in Nigeria: A developing country perspective
Corporate Governance review , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 249 - 260 Posted: 2010
R Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
S Alhababsah
Ownership structure and audit quality: An empirical analysis considering ownership types in Jordan
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 35 , p. 71 - 84 Posted: 2019
T Ajadi , M Luka , M S Tijani , Aifuwa Bai , H O Embele , K
Impact of ownership structure on audit quality of listed insurance firms in Nigeria
Corporate governance, ownership structure and bank performance in , volume 5 , p. 30 - 49 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
105
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies