Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Red Flags and Hidden Trails: Forensic Accounting as the Protective Umbrella for Banks Against Credit Frauds

15 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Himanshu Thakkar

National Forensic Science University,

Saptarshi Datta

National Forensic Science University,

Date Written: July 24, 2025

Abstract

The escalating threat of sophisticated credit fraud poses a significant challenge to the stability and integrity of the banking and finance industry. Losses from credit frauds not only decrease profitability but can also significantly erode trust from the public and expose institutions to regulators. The field of forensic accounting has become integral to address each of these concerns in an accounting and investigative context. Forensic accounting has forensic technology, investigative tools and skills to address these financial crimes. This paper highlights the importance of asset tracing, one area of forensic accounting, in preventing and/or detecting credit fraud. The paper discusses basic techniques, including money trail analysis, financial analysis, data mining and public records and corporate filings, to find hidden assets. The general goal of the paper is to educate banks and finance practitioners on the principles of asset tracing and practical methods for applying asset tracing to their operational methods. This study serves to build a theoretical, practical and analytical contribution to fraud risk management in banks and the finance industry to build better asset tracing processes that can help protect institutional assets, improve recovery and protect institutional reputation.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Credit Fraud, Asset Tracing, Fraud Prevention, Fraud Investigation, Banking and Finance

Suggested Citation:

Thakkar, Himanshu and Datta, Saptarshi, Red Flags and Hidden Trails: Forensic Accounting as the Protective Umbrella for Banks Against Credit Frauds (July 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5366755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5366755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Aboud , B Robinson
Fraudulent financial reporting and data analytics: An explanatory study from Ireland
Accounting Research Journal , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 2020
A Adejumo , C Ogburie
Forensic accounting in Financial Fraud Detection: Trends and challenges
International Journal of Science and Research Archive , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 1219 - 1232 Posted: 2025
E I Agboare
Impact of forensic accounting on financial fraud detection in deposit money banks in Nigeria
African Journal of Accounting and Financial Research , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 74 - 119 Posted: 2021
S Ahmed , M Majeed , E Thalassinos , Y Thalassinos
The impact of bank specific and macroeconomic factors on non-performing loans in the banking sector: Evidence from an emerging economy
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 14 , issue 5 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
RANK
906,046
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies