Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxonomy of Fraud in Crowdfunding: A Hybrid Review of Detection Tools Using Artificial Intelligence and Blockchain for Sustainable Platforms

29 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2025

Ioana Florina Coita

Universitatea din Oradea; University of Economics in Bratislava; "Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski

Marcos Machado

University of Twente

Lucia Gomez Teijeiro

Bern University of Applied Sciences (BFH); University of Geneva

Andreas Gregoriades

Cyprus University of Technology

CHRISTOS THEMISTOCLEOUS

Cyprus University of Technology

Frederik Sinan Bernard

University of Twente

Ramona Rupeika-Apoga

University of Latvia

Huei-Wen Teng

National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University

Anastas Dzurovski

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gokce Nur Yilmaz

TED University

Liana Stanca

Babes-Bolyai University

Wouter van Heeswijk

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Marius Vlad Pop

University of Oradea

Karolina Bolesta

Warsaw School of Economics (SGH) - Department of Economics I

Jana Péliová

University of Economics in Bratislava

Olivija Filipovska

Geostrategic Institute Global

Karsten Wenzlaff

University of Hamburg - Faculty of Business, Economics, and Social Sciences; University of Cambridge - Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance; European Centre for Alternative Finance

Abstract

Crowdfunding platforms have gained popularity as a means of financing entrepreneurial initiatives but face a high risk of fraud. Fraud erodes trust and causes financial instability. Thus, robust fraud detection and pre­vention are crucial for the sustainability of crowdfunding platforms. This study provides a systematic review of the literature and state-of-the-art discussions about crowdfunding fraud. Unsupervised topic modeling highlights that both AI and blockchain are recurrently presented in the literature as effective methodologies for identifying and preventing fraudulent practices. Furthermore, this work describes current market practices of crowdfunding platforms in preventing fraudu­lent behavior and argues that while fraud is rare, its high impact requires new and innovative forms of fraud detection. A key limiting factor for the application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) solutions is the lack of available labeled crowdfunding data for training efficient algorithms for fraud detection, which is crucial as it constitutes an anomaly detection Machine Learning (ML) task. In this context, unsupervised ML methods are discussed as valuable techniques for detecting anomalies in the absence of labeled fraud cases because ofe of their ability to adapt to evolving fraud patterns. This research provides valuable insights into the taxonomy of frauds and the complexity of detecting and preventing fraudulent activities in crowdfunding.

Keywords: Fraud Detection, Crowdfunding, Finance Industry, Alternative Finance Methods, AI guided Literature Review

Suggested Citation:

Coita, Ioana Florina and Machado, Marcos and Gomez Teijeiro, Lucia and Gregoriades, Andreas and THEMISTOCLEOUS, CHRISTOS and Bernard, Frédérik Sinan and Rupeika-Apoga, Ramona and Teng, Huei-Wen and Dzurovski, Anastas and Nur Yilmaz, Gokce and Stanca, Liana and van Heeswijk, Wouter and Pop, Marius Vlad and Bolesta, Karolina and Péliová, Jana and Filipovska, Olivija and Wenzlaff, Karsten, Taxonomy of Fraud in Crowdfunding: A Hybrid Review of Detection Tools Using Artificial Intelligence and Blockchain for Sustainable Platforms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5369103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5369103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
275
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies