Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Systemic Flaws in the Audit Mechanisms of Government-Assisted Education Trusts: A Call for Urgent Reform of Regulation

5 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025 Last revised: 13 Aug 2025

Keanu Lopez

Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE)

Shilpa Alshi

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI); NMIMS Deemed-to-be University

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

This study offers a detailed examination of widespread shortcomings in the auditing framework that oversees government-sponsored charitable trusts in Maharashtra, which heavily attract huge amounts of public funds. Based on empirical audit engagement evidence, the study reveals underlying flaws in regulatory oversight and identifies the ways in which weak enforcement of the law, superficial judicial intervention, and dispersed audit processes reinforce one another to facilitate fiscal misgovernance. The recurrence of these shortcomings bears witness to a deep institutional aversion that dissolves transparency, warps accountability, and undermines public confidence in public finances management.

Keywords: Government audit, public finance oversight, charitable trusts, fiscal misgovernance, audit enforcement, forensic auditing, transparency and accountability, Maharashtra governance.

Suggested Citation:

Lopez, Keanu and Alshi, Shilpa, Systemic Flaws in the Audit Mechanisms of Government-Assisted Education Trusts: A Call for Urgent Reform of Regulation (August 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5381216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5381216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Economic Social , Revenue Sector , -Jammu & Kashmir
_Performance%20Audit_Report_No_1_of_2017_Non-PSUs_2015-16.pdf Comptroller and Auditor General of India
_Compliance_Audit_of_Report_no_1_of_ 2021_Social_General_Economic_and_Revenue_Sector_J%26K-0605b27b2355c86.12074954.pdf Comptroller and Auditor General of India Posted: 2009
References
B Bruns , D Filmer , H A Patrinos
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVES Making Schools Work New Evidence on Accountability Reforms
A H M Y Chowdhury , M Mahjabeen , M M Habib
Financial Reporting Practices of Local NGO's Operating in Bangladesh
Journal of Economics, Business and Management , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 24 - 28 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
93
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies