Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Test of the Behavior Analysis Interview in a Fraud Setting

41 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2025

Brady Haering

University of Colorado Denver

Kevan Jensen

University of Oklahoma

Mark Smith

University of Oklahoma - Michael F. Price College of Business; University of North Florida

Abstract

This study examines the effectiveness of the BAI (Behavior Analysis Interview) interviewing technique in differentiating fraud perpetrators from non-perpetrators. The BAI is one of law enforcement’s most widely used interviewing techniques. It uses a series of non-accusatory “assessment” questions designed theoretically to induce perpetrators of crimes to respond differently (on average) than non-perpetrators. Using simulated interviews in three experimental settings—wherein some of the participants have perpetrated a fraud and others have not—we find evidence that several BAI questions elicit different verbal responses from perpetrators than from non-perpetrators, as predicted. We also find that using the verbal responses from a BAI interview together in a predictive model enables us to distinguish fraud perpetrators from non-perpetrators with relatively high levels of accuracy.

Keywords: Assessment Questions, Auditing, Fraud, inquiry, interviewing, risk assessment

Suggested Citation:

Haering, Brady and Jensen, Kevan and Smith, Mark and Smith, Mark, A Test of the Behavior Analysis Interview in a Fraud Setting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5385216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5385216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
W S Albrecht , C O Albrecht , C C Albrecht , M F Zimbleman
Posted: 2019
J P Blair , B Kooi
The gap between training and research in the detection of deception
International Journal of Police Science & Management , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 77 - 83 Posted: 2004
M Carlisle , C Gimbar , J G Jenkins
Auditor-client interactions: An exploration of power dynamics during audit evidence collection
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 51 Posted: 2023
B Depaulo , J Lindsay , B Malone , L Muhlenbruck , K Charlton , H Cooper
Cues to deception
Psychological Bulletin , volume 129 , issue 1 , p. 74 - 118 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
130
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Criminal Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies