Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Study on the Application of Forensic Analytics in Early-Stage Occupational Fraud Detection

28 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2025

Himanshu Thakkar

National Forensic Sciences University

Gopika Gopan

Ken & Co. Chartered Accountants

Anshu Singh

Rashtriya Raksha University

Siddharth Dabhade

National Forensic Sciences University

Date Written: June 25, 2024

Abstract

Occupational fraud is the most prevalent threat affecting developed and developing countries. According to the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, India has the highest occupational fraud rate among Southern Asian countries. As technology advances, criminals are looking for innovative ways to commit crimes. The effects of fraud on companies include loss of reputation, weakening of investors' confidence, reduction of profit, and lowering moral values of employees. The study aims to evaluate the most recent preventative measures organizations have implemented to reduce occupational fraud. The researchers have highlighted the value of forensic analytics in detecting and preventing occupational fraud. This research is based on a mixed method. Results suggest forensic analytics is crucial for detecting occupational fraud at early stages.

Keywords: Forensic Analytics, Occupational Fraud, Employee Fraud, Forensic Auditing

Suggested Citation:

Thakkar, Himanshu and Gopan, Gopika and Singh, Anshu and Dabhade, Siddharth, Study on the Application of Forensic Analytics in Early-Stage Occupational Fraud Detection (June 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5392960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5392960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies