Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federated Learning for Privacy-Preserving Financial Fraud Detection

10 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2025

Mayowa Emmanuel

Independent

Date Written: May 20, 2025

Abstract

The increasing complexity of financial fraud requires increased and privacysensitive mechanisms of detection which can access wide-ranging and sensitive data and that do not breach the privacy of individuals or institutions. A paradigm shift is promised by Federated Learning (FL) which brings together the efforts of multiple financial institutions to train machine learning models partaking in the effort collectively without exposing raw data. This paper discusses how FL can be used in privacy-preserving detection of financial fraud in the e-commerce and financial push-payment setting. We discuss the architecture and mechanisms of FL, which are followed by the attention given to important privacy enhancing technology, including differential privacy and secure multi-party computation. In this paper we show, through both simulated and real life case studies, the ability of FL to demonstrate competitive accuracy in detecting anomalous and fraudulent transactions, under the ultimate data confidentiality guarantee. Data heterogeneity, overhead in communications, and model drift associated with scalable and robust fraud detection systems are also the challenges that the study addresses, offering the adaptive methods of addressing them. We find the possibility of replacing the current state of multilateral fraud prevention with a mechanism based on FL that strikes a balance between performance maximization in predictive fraud prevention and the need to meet legal requirements and protect privacy.

Keywords: AI-Driven Fraud Detection in Banking, Decentralized Fraud Analytics in FinTech, Privacy-Preserving Transaction Monitoring, Cross-Institutional Fraud Detection Models

Declaration of Interest

I declare that I have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this article.

Ethics Approval

This study did not involve human participants, personal data, or animals, and therefore did not require ethics approval.

Funder Statement

This research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.

Clinical Trial Registration

Not applicable. This research did not involve clinical trials or studies on human participants requiring registration.

Suggested Citation:

Emmanuel, Mayowa, Federated Learning for Privacy-Preserving Financial Fraud Detection (May 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5399668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5399668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,166
RANK
687,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Financial Crises eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies