Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collusion and Earnings Management in Private Firms: Evidence from Antitrust Prosecutions in an Emerging Market

15 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2025

Héctor Fabio Perafán-Peña

Universidad Externado de Colombia

Belen Gill-de-Albornoz

Jaume I University - Department of Finance and Accounting

Begoña Giner

University of Valencia

Abstract

This study investigates earnings management practices by private firms during cartel prosecution in a developing economy, Colombia. Drawing on a sample of firms investigated between 2010 and 2014, we find empirical support for the political cost hypothesis. These companies engaged in downward earnings management through accrual-based and real activities manipulation when incentives to understate earnings were strongest: at the outset of investigations and following the public disclosure of the fine calculation methodology. This research extends the political cost hypothesis literature, traditionally focused on public firms in Anglo-Saxon and European settings, by offering new insights into how private firms in emerging markets strategically manage earnings to mitigate antitrust penalties. The results suggest that infringing firms may portray a weakened financial position to seek more lenient sanctions. The insights underscore the need for enforcement agencies to ensure proportionality in penalties to preserve fairness and effectively deter anti-competitive conduct.

Keywords: collusion, earnings management, political costs, private firms, antitrust enforcement, emerging markets

Suggested Citation:

Perafán-Peña, Héctor Fabio and Gill de Albornoz Noguer, Belen and Giner Inchausti, Begoña, Collusion and Earnings Management in Private Firms: Evidence from Antitrust Prosecutions in an Emerging Market. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5400619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5400619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
B A Badertscher
Overvaluation and the Choice of Alternative Earnings Management Mechanisms
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1491 - 1518 Posted: 2011
T A Baker , T J Lopez , A L Reitenga , G W Ruch
The influence of CEO and CFO power on accruals and real earnings management
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 325 - 345 Posted: 2019
R Ball
Accounting for Inflation: The Dog That Didn't Bark
Abacus , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2024
M J Bloomfield , C Marvão , G Spagnolo
Relative performance evaluation, sabotage and collusion
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 76 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
86
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law, Institutions & Economic Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies