Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No Country for Dirty Money? The Economic Footprint of Anti-Money Laundering Standards

59 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2025

Cesare Fracassi

University of Texas at Austin

Eric Lee

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Tarik Roukny

KU Leuven - Faculty of Business and Economics (FEB); affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 22, 2025

Abstract

We provide the first comprehensive causal analysis of the economic footprint of international anti-money laundering (AML) standards. Leveraging the staggered timing of Financial Action Task Force (FATF) mutual evaluations as an exogenous shock, we find that strengthening AML policies has a mixed impact on international economic activity. While bilateral cross-border trade declines by 4% on average, this adverse effect is substantially reduced for countries whose AML policies become more harmonized with their trading partners. Furthermore, we find that these policies result in an 8% increase in foreign direct investments. FATF assessments also significantly increase the detection of money laundering cases by 31% but show no measurable impact on other illegal activities like drug trafficking, human trafficking, or fraud. Our findings highlight the tradeoff faced by anti-money laundering policies, and the benefits of global coordination to minimize the costs associated with AML compliance.

Suggested Citation:

Fracassi, Cesare and Lee, Eric Seung Chul and Roukny, Tarik, No Country for Dirty Money? The Economic Footprint of Anti-Money Laundering Standards (August 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5401402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5401402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
RANK
640,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies