Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Enron Scandal (2001): Corporate Fraud and Leadership Ethics

9 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2025

Shalini Kumari

Alliance University

Date Written: May 25, 2025

Abstract

The 2001 Enron scandal is still one of the most notorious cases of corporate fraud in history. Enron Corporation, which was a very successful energy and commodities trading firm, used accounting gimmicks to conceal losses and deceive investors. Through the use of accounting tricks such as mark-to-market accounting and the establishment of off-balance-sheet entities, Enron managers were able to show a false picture of financial health while racking huge losses. When the fraudulent behavior was revealed, the company came crashing down within a short period and eventually declared bankruptcy. The case led to grave legal repercussions for its senior leadership, such as criminal convictions and imprisonment. It also resulted in the breakup of Arthur Andersen LLP, which is a major global accounting firm implicated in the scam. The scandal exposed serious corporate governance, transparency, and regulatory failures, which led to far-reaching reforms, the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 being one. The case highlights the significance of ethical leadership, fiscal responsibility, and robust regulatory structures in deterring corporate malfeasance.

Suggested Citation:

Kumari, Shalini, The Enron Scandal (2001): Corporate Fraud and Leadership Ethics (May 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5403291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5403291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
864
RANK
584,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Consumer Financial Fraud eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies