Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Just Ready to be Done! Busy Season Fatigue, Auditor Professional Skepticism, and the Role of Data Visualizations

56 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025

Joseph F. Brazel

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management - Department of Accounting

Tracie M. Majors

University of Southern California

Nicole Wright

James Madison University

Date Written: August 25, 2025

Abstract

We conducted an experiment comparing the skeptical actions of practicing auditors completing a substantive testing procedure just after a busy season versus during a time of normal workload. While busy season fatigue is expected to reduce auditors’ raising of a fraud red flag, a critical skeptical action, we posit that providing auditors with static or interactive visualizations (compared to traditional tabulated data only) will diminish this effect. Our study proposes an underlying process in which fatigue impairs skeptical action by initially reducing auditors’ task motivation – which in turn causes auditors to be less skeptical through: (1) assessing a lower risk of material misstatement and (2) feeling a “just get it done” frame of mind. We expect the static and interactive visualizations will effectively “intervene” by interrupting this causal chain and that, among fatigued auditors, interactive visualizations will be even more effective than static. As predicted, we find that static and interactive visualizations mitigate the negative effects of fatigue on skeptical actions. Contrary to our prediction, static and interactive visualizations are similarly effective. Additional analyses validate our fatigue independent variable, rule out alternative explanations, and support our proposed theoretical mechanisms.

Keywords: Audit, Busy Season, Fatigue, Professional Skepticism, Visualizations

Suggested Citation:

Brazel, Joseph F. and Majors, Tracie McDonald and Wright, Nicole, Just Ready to be Done! Busy Season Fatigue, Auditor Professional Skepticism, and the Role of Data Visualizations (August 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5404911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5404911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
183
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies