Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does missing analyst forecast affect receiving comment letters?

38 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2025

Hongyu Li

Guangdong University of Technology

Zhiqiang Lu

Guangdong University of Technology

Abstract

This study examines whether missing analyst forecast influence firm receiving comment letters in China. Based on the fraud triangle framework, we propose that missing analyst forecast increases fraud incentives by creating performance pressure, which enhance the intensity of the regulatory review by the supervisory authorities on firm annual reports. Meanwhile, internal control deficiencies and financing constraints, as opportunities and rationalizations, may enhance the effect of missing analyst forecast on regulatory review. Using a sample of China’s listed companies from 2015 to 2023, we find unexpectedly poor performance significantly increases the probability and severity of the firm receiving comment letters, with internal control deficiencies and financing constraints strengthening the relationship. Furthermore, state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and firms with high relative performance are less likely to receive comment letters due to lower incentive for financial fraud.

Keywords: Unexpectedly poor performance, Financial fraud, Comment letters, Internal Control, Financing constraints

Suggested Citation:

Li, Hongyu and Lu, Zhiqiang, Does missing analyst forecast affect receiving comment letters?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5413994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5413994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S M Albring , X Xu
Management earnings forecasts, managerial incentives, and risk-taking
Advances in accounting , volume 42 , p. 48 - 69 Posted: 2018
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The accounting review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
M Baugh , K Kim , K J Lee
The effect of SEC reviewers on comment letters
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 656 - 690 Posted: 2022
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
Journal of political economy , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
62
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies