Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Fraud: The Interaction of Standards, Governance, and Managerial Integrity

15 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025

Payamta Payamta

Sebelas Maret University

Agus Dwianto

Department of Accounting, Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Sebelas Maret, Surakarta, Indonesia; Department of Accounting, Economics and Business, Universitas Muhammadiyah Surakarta, Surakarta, Indonesia.

Gehad Saif

University of Aden, Yemen

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

Financial reporting fraud still has implications for the effectiveness and efficiency of world capital markets, particularly in emerging-market nations where regulatory environments are less structured. Although studies in audit quality and regulatory compliance are independent from each other in the previous academic research, we develop a new comprehensive theoretical model, which integrates the antecedents of audit quality (audit tenure, audit fee, Big 4 affiliation) and the extant IFRS adoption, governance quality, and Managerial Ethical Integrity, to assess their combined and interactive impacts on fraud detection. Based on 480 firm year observations of listed manufacturers operating indonesia emerging economy from 2018 to 2023, this research adopts multiple regression and moderation analysis to unravel intricate interconnections. The innovation of having structural (audit mechanisms), regulatory (IFRS compliance), and behavioral (ethical leadership) variables in one model is providing a multi-dimensional view not touched upon by previous studies. The findings show that audit quality and IFRS adoption are associated with a lower fraud risk; the impact of these determinants, however, varies positively or negatively depending on the governance mechanisms and ethical leadership. This discovery undermines a prevailing belief that institutional and technical conformance are sufficient to inhibit misconduct. By demonstrating the moderating influence of managerial integrity and governance quality, this study contributes to the theoretical understanding and provides practical implications to government, auditors and board members for creating an anti-corruptive governance system. The originality of this research is that it also adds to the expanding the horizon of audit research in terms of behavioural governance which is particularly important for ASEAN and other emerging economies.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Financial Reporting Fraud, Audit Tenure, Audit Fee, Big 4

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Ethics Approval

This study is based on publicly available secondary data and did not involve human participants or animals; therefore, ethics approval was not required.

Funder Statement

This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors. This work was supported by Universitas Sebelas Maret, Faculty of Economics and Business, through internal academic research funding.

Suggested Citation:

Payamta, Payamta and Dwianto, Agus and Saif, Gehad, Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Fraud: The Interaction of Standards, Governance, and Managerial Integrity (August 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5416056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5416056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
RANK
730,194
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies