Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Invisible Gorilla: More Dangerous Digitally than on Paper?

33 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2025

Claire Bassin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jean-Francois Gajewski

University Jean Moulin Lyon 3

Marco Heimann

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Luc Meunier

ESSCA School of Management

Abstract

In light of accelerating digitalization trends, this study critically examines whether this digital turn might increase the prevalence of cognitive biases, such as inattentional blindness or the halo effect, that are detrimental to the quality of work. We use an experimental design that mimics a realistic sales cut-off test to ascertain if auditors make more mistakes when working digitally. In addition to classic dates and amount mistakes, some invoices were issued by "Gorilla Corporation," a different company from the one being audited, which should have been a red flag for fraud. Auditors working digitally were approximately twice as likely to miss the red flag, failing to notice it in about 41% of cases. Eye tracking showed that even auditors who missed the fraud looked directly at the area where the incorrect company name appeared, for more than a second on average, which offers a strong indication of inattentional blindness. The results also offer evidence of a halo effect, though it did not differ between paper and digital conditions. This article is among the first to explore the impact of current digitalization trends on the quality of work. The results raise pertinent cautions: digitalization is not without peril and can endanger quality of work through an increasing prevalence of cognitive biases. Reverting to paper is both unlikely and undesirable, so this study offers potential solutions, including using nudges to reduce the risk of inattentional blindness in digital work.

Keywords: Digitalization, audit quality, Inattentional blindness, Halo Effect

Suggested Citation:

Bassin, Claire and Gajewski, Jean-Francois and Heimann, Marco and Meunier, Luc, The Invisible Gorilla: More Dangerous Digitally than on Paper?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5440237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5440237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
H P Andres
A comparison of face-to-face and virtual software development teams
Team performance management: an international journal , volume 8 , issue 1/2 , p. 39 - 48 Posted: 2002
D Argento , D Dobija , G Grossi , M Marrone , L Mora
The unaccounted effects of digital transformation: implications for accounting, auditing and accountability research
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 765 - 796 Posted: 2025
S Benartzi , J Lehrer
The smarter screen: surprising ways to influence and improve online behaviour Posted: 2015
T T Brunyé , T Drew , D L Weaver , J G Elmore
A review of eye tracking for understanding and improving diagnostic interpretation
Cognitive research: principles and implications , volume 4 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
82
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies