Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Algorithmic Accountability in Government Auditing: A Study Of Public Sector Financial Transparency in The Republic Of Bénin

40 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2025

Ayebo Bolale Francine Laourou

Independent

Date Written: May 30, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the implementation and impact of algorithmic systems in government auditing processes within the Republic of Bénin's public sector.. By using a mixedmethods design (interviews conducted with 45 participants, including critical public auditors, civil servants, and policymakers, in conjunction with the review of auditing results in 2020-2024) we explore the impact created by automated auditing tools on financial transparency, fraud detection, and the trust of the population. As our results indicate, although the use of algorithmic auditing systems has increased the level of detecting analyses by 34% and has decreased processing time by 58%, some major issues still arise when it comes to the user acceptability of algorithmic decisions, their visibility, and the fairness of accessing the benefits of technological applications. The research fits into the perspective of accountability theory because it provides a framework of algorithmic accountability regarding the situation in developing countries and highlights the importance of human-algorithm interaction in shaping the outcomes of the governance process. Results have shown that effective implementation cannot be achieved without cultural adaptation, unending training and well established oversight mechanisms as well as technical dexterity. The study contributes substantially to the knowledge of policymakers and other practitioners interested in promoting the accountability of the public sector by using algorithms as an innovation without diminishing democracy and the trust of citizens. The implications are not only on Bénin but also on other developing countries with the same idea of introducing digital transformation as an aspect of their governance.

Keywords: Algorithmic Accountability, Government Auditing, Financial Transparency, Public Sector Technology, Republic Of Bénin, Human-Computer Interaction

Funder Statement

N/A

Suggested Citation:

Laourou, Ayebo Bolale Francine,

Algorithmic Accountability in Government Auditing: A Study Of Public Sector Financial Transparency in The Republic Of Bénin

(May 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5506799 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5506799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
39
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies