Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Market Liberalization and Corporate Fraud: Evidence Based on the Fraud Triangle Framework

25 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2025

Bin Wang

Fuzhou University

JiaJia Luo

Fuzhou University

Lee-Hsien Pan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study examines how stock market liberalization affects corporate fraud through the lens of the fraud triangle framework. Using a difference-in-differences (DID) approach to analyze Chinese A-share listed firms, we find that the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program significantly reduces corporate fraud by alleviating financing constraints, strengthening external monitoring, and mitigating information asymmetry. The effect is more pronounced in firms with highly educated CEOs, weak internal controls, and larger size. Further tests reveal heterogeneous effects across different types of fraud. This study advances the theoretical and empirical understanding of the relationship between stock market liberalization and corporate fraud, and provides practical implications for fraud prevention in the context of increasingly open financial markets.

Keywords: Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, Capital Market Opening, Corporate fraud, Fraud Triangle Framework

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Bin and Luo, JiaJia and Pan, Lee-Hsien, Stock Market Liberalization and Corporate Fraud: Evidence Based on the Fraud Triangle Framework. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5507186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5507186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
J. Financ. Econ , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
R K Aggarwal , L F Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio preferences of foreign institutional investors
J. Bank. Finance , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 784 - 796 Posted: 2011
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
J. Account. Econ , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
J. Account. Res , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
51
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies