Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Misreporting and Dividend Policies — New Evidence from Firms with Concentrated Ownership

47 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2025

Chenkai Ni

Department of Accounting, School of Management, Fudan University; Fudan University

Yuanzhen Zhang

Fudan University, School of Management, Students

Abstract

Using a sample of Chinese listed firms with concentrated ownership from 2007 to 2022, we find that firms distribute more cash dividends during periods of earnings inflation. This finding contrasts with that of the U.S. listed firms with dispersed ownership (e.g., Caskey and Hanlon, 2013). We attribute this finding to controlling shareholders’ dividend tunneling incentives. Consistent with this notion, the positive fraud-dividend link is more pronounced when controlling shareholders’ expropriation incentives are stronger, firms’ governance quality is weaker and external monitoring is less binding. The main effect becomes insignificant after China’s 2020 Security Law amendment, which increases the expected cost of controlling shareholders’ expropriating activities during fraud. Lacking internal cash flows, fraudulent firms are more likely to conduct equity issuance to finance their cash dividends. Finally, higher dividends predict lower future growth for fraudulent firms, while higher future growth is predicted for non-fraudulent firms.

Keywords: Financial reporting fraud, Corporate governance, tunneling, controlling shareholders.

Suggested Citation:

Ni, Chenkai and Zhang, Yuanzhen, Financial Misreporting and Dividend Policies — New Evidence from Firms with Concentrated Ownership. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5547310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5547310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
D Aboody , N B Johnson , R Kasznik
Employee Stock Options and Future Firm Performance: Evidence from Option Repricings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 74 - 92 Posted: 2010
D L Alves , M B Gietzmann , B N Jørgensen
Show Me the Money-Cut: Shareholder Dividend Suspensions and Voluntary CEO Pay Cuts during the COVID Pandemic
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 40 , issue 6 Posted: 2021
J Atanassov , A J Mandell
Corporate Governance and Dividend Policy: Evidence of Tunneling from Master Limited Partnerships
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 53 , p. 106 - 132 Posted: 2018
S C Bae , K Chang , E Kang
Culture, Corporate Governance, and Dividend Policy: International Evidence
Journal of Financial Research , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 316 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
79
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies