Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Intangible Asset Valuations in Financial Reports Useful? Historical Evidence from the Illinois Blue Sky Law

85 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025 Last revised: 2 Oct 2025

Huseyin Akkoyun

Northwestern University

Michael Andrews

University of Maryland Baltimore County

Kirti Sinha

Naveen Jindal School of Management, UT Dallas

Rajkamal Vasu

Temple University

Date Written: September 30, 2025

Abstract

Under current accounting standards, internally generated intangible assets (IGIs) are excluded from balance sheets, and for acquired intangibles only aggregate values are reported. Scholars argue that this lack of IGI reporting limits investors’ ability to assess a firm’s true value, yet standard setters remain uncertain whether such assets should be included in financial statements. Moreover, even if such assets were recognized, questions remain as to whether IGIs should be reported individually or in aggregate, and which valuation approach should be used. We contribute to this debate by analyzing a historical case: Illinois’s 1919 “blue sky law,” which required firms issuing securities to disclose itemized valuations of all intangible assets—without distinguishing between acquired and internally generated ones. Although our dataset spans various intangible types, we focus on patents—the only category with measurable future value—to assess whether reported valuations were informative. The data also allows us to distinguish among valuation methods, including historical research and development (R&D) costs, purchase prices, appraised values, and instances in which nominal valuations are listed. We find that reported patent valuations are uncorrelated with independent measures of long-term patent value. Moreover, there is no difference in correlation between acquired and IG patents, or itemized and non-itemized patents; all methods of valuation are likewise uncorrelated with long-term values, with the exception of appraised valuations, which are negatively correlated. To understand the plausible reasons behind these results, we draw on digit testing tools from forensic accounting. We find that in most cases, there is no evidence of manipulation of intangible asset values. Instead, we find that owners of intangible assets struggle to precisely value them. Overall, these results suggest that it is possible to expand disclosure of intangible asset valuations without leading to manipulation by asset owners, but uncertainty in the values of these assets make those valuations unpredictive of future value.

Keywords: Intangibles, Financial Disclosure, FASB, Blue Sky Laws, Patents

Declaration of Interest

NA

Ethics Approval

NA

Funder Statement

NA

JEL Classification: G10, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Akkoyun, Huseyin and Andrews, Michael and Sinha, Kirti and Vasu, Rajkamal,
Are Intangible Asset Valuations in Financial Reports Useful? Historical Evidence from the Illinois Blue Sky Law
(September 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5553421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5553421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
202
RANK
864,457
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies