Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whistleblowing Governance Systems, Organisational Rationalisation of Tax Evasion, and Reporting Intentions

29 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2025

Ying Han Fan

Curtin University

Hongjian Yu

Beijing National Accounting Institute

Xinrui Lin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ruchuan Jiang

China University of Political Science and Law

Mengying Zhao

Beijing National Accounting Institute

Abstract

We aim to investigate if whistleblowing intentions vary under the conditions of with/without rationalisation of tax evasion and with different rationalisations. We further investigate whether the existence of whistleblowing governance systems makes a difference in whistleblowing intentions on tax evasion. We apply a randomised post-test-only control group experiment to examine our research questions. The results show that the whistleblowing intentions of the accountants in the treatment groups (with rationalisation) are significantly higher than those of the control group (without rationalisation). We also find that the accountants in a company with a whistleblowing office and training experience have a higher internal reporting intention than those without a whistleblowing office and training experience. We also find that male accountants have a stronger external reporting preference than female accountants.

Keywords: Whistleblowing Intentions, Organisational Rationalisation, Tax Evasion, Whistleblowing System, Experiment

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Ying Han and Yu, Hongjian and Lin, Xinrui and Jiang, Ruchuan and Zhao, Mengying, Whistleblowing Governance Systems, Organisational Rationalisation of Tax Evasion, and Reporting Intentions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5561811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5561811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
P Alleyne , W Charles-Soverall , T Broome , A Pierce
Perceptions, predictors and consequences of whistleblowing among accounting employees in Barbados
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 267 Posted: 2017
V Anand , B E Ashforth , M Joshi
Business as usual: The acceptance and perpetuation of corruption in organizations , volume 18 , p. 39 - 53 Posted: 2004
P Andon , C Free , R Jidin , G S Monroe , M J Turner
The impact of financial incentives and perceptions of seriousness on whistleblowing intention
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , p. 165 - 178 Posted: 2018
A Antinyan , L Corazzini , F Pavesi
Does trust in the government matter for whistleblowing on tax evaders? Survey and experimental evidence
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 171 , p. 77 - 95 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
58
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies