Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Giving Credit Where It's Due: Misstatement Detection and Firm Disclosures

65 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Douglas Laporte

Washington University in Saint Louis, John M. Olin Business School

Maureen F. McNichols

Stanford University

Maria M. Correia

London School of Economics and Political Science

Date Written: October 03, 2025

Abstract

"Big R" restatements are significant corporate events, yet there is limited evidence on the roles of management, auditors, the SEC, and other third parties in detecting material misstatements. Similarly, little is known about how firms disclose these detectors. Using large language models and restatement announcements, we identify who firms credit for detecting material misstatements and contrast these disclosures with evidence from SEC comment letters and investigations. We document a large gap between disclosed and observed SEC detection. Consistent with a stylized model of the trade-offs between valuation and reputation consequences of this disclosure choice, firms that credit the SEC experience more negative market reactions but reduced executive turnover. We further show that managers are less forthcoming about SEC's involvement when the SEC's actions are less visible, and when their compensation is more sensitive to stock price.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, restatement, SEC, large language models

JEL Classification: C45, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Laporte, Douglas and McNichols, Maureen F. and Correia, Maria M., Giving Credit Where It's Due: Misstatement Detection and Firm Disclosures (October 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5561099 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5561099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
126
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies