Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, and Critical Audit Matters

64 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025

Monika Causholli

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Valbona Sulcaj

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study examines how the quantity and disclosure attributes of critical audit matters (CAMs) vary with perceived litigation risk and financial reporting quality. Consistent with the litigation hypothesis, we find that auditors disclose more CAMs when litigation risk is high, likely to preempt negative consequences from shareholder lawsuits. Further, CAMs quantity increases when financial reporting quality decreases, reflecting the inherent quality of financial statements. However, CAMs are less readable and more boilerplate in the presence of high litigation risk and low financial reporting quality. Our results highlight complementary effects of litigation risk, financial reporting quality, and their interaction on CAMs quantity and textual attributes. Auditors appear to manage litigation exposure by increasing CAMs quantity, while utilizing opaque, standardized language to shield clients with lower financial reporting quality. Pairwise analyses show that CAM textual characteristics are largely shaped at the audit firm level challenging the PCAOB’s objective of attaining engagement-specific CAMs.

Keywords: Audit Report, Critical Audit Matters, Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, CAM Readability, CAM Boilerplate

Suggested Citation:

Causholli, Monika and Sulcaj, Valbona, Litigation Risk, Financial Reporting Quality, and Critical Audit Matters. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5571194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5571194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
D Anantharaman , J A Pittman , N Wans
State liability regimes within the United States and auditor reporting
Audit Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit , volume 91 , p. 1545 - 1575 Posted: 2005
Audit Analytics
Insights from COVID-19 References in CAMs Posted: 2021
A G Backof
The impact of audit evidence documentation on jurors' negligence verdicts and damage awards
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2177 - 2204 Posted: 2015
A G Backof , K Bowlin , B M Goodson
The importance of clarification of auditors' responsibilities under the new audit reporting standards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 2284 - 2304 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies