Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Income Inequality in Local Government Misappropriation

43 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2025

Andrew K. Jones

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Anish Sharma

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Date Written: October 07, 2025

Abstract

Local government employees misappropriate millions of taxpayer dollars from local governments every year. Therefore, understanding the factors associated with misappropriation is critical. We examine whether elements of the fraud triangle are associated with its occurrence. We primarily focus on the rationalization component of the fraud triangle and find evidence consistent with the notion that when local government employees perceive higher income inequality in their local communities, they are more likely to commit misappropriation. Consistent with the other aspects of the fraud triangle, we find that this association is stronger when local government employees face greater financial pressures (i.e., when they experience greater economic strain) and modestly weaker when local government employees are more constrained by increased monitoring (i.e., when they have less opportunity). In sum, our results suggest that misappropriation is more likely to occur in localities with greater income inequality and highlight a factor for local governments to consider when assessing fraud risk.

Keywords: Rationalization, fraud triangle, local government, misappropriation, income inequality

Suggested Citation:

Jones, Andrew and Miller, Brian P. and Sharma, Anish, The Role of Income Inequality in Local Government Misappropriation (October 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5579812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5579812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
119
RANK
914,805
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies