Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shaking the Faith? Frauds across the Globe and Trust in Capital Markets

53 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Inna Abramova

London Business School

Brandon Gipper

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Xuan Su

Stanford University, Graduate School of Business, Students

Date Written: October 10, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether negative fraud-related spillovers are uniform globally, focusing on the role of ex ante investor trust. We find that high-trust markets have reduced stock market participation and reduced trading and price responses to earnings news following frauds, consistent with prior literature. Low-trust markets have the opposite, with increased participation and greater reactions to earnings news after fraud revelation, potentially viewing unearthed frauds as signs of effective—yet previously unexpected—oversight and lower amounts of fraud overall. Within the U.S., immigrants from high- and low-trusting countries also have differing changes in stock market participation after the same frauds. Regulators that enforce strong investor protections enhance the disparity in the changing reactions to earnings news between high- and low-trust markets. Overall, our evidence indicates that trust moderates how market participants interpret the exposure of frauds.

Keywords: JEL classification: F39, G14, G15, G39, M41, M42, Z10 trust, capital market participation, corporate scandals, financial misconduct, earnings credibility, corporate earnings announcement, gatekeepers, investor protection, enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Abramova, Inna and Gipper, Brandon and Su, Xuan and Su, Xuan, Shaking the Faith? Frauds across the Globe and Trust in Capital Markets (October 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5594850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5594850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
28
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies